## Search algorithms
* Sequence of actions that can transform current state to desire state
* *search* is a computational way of capturing this reasoning
* Sometime you're interested in finding an optimal solution
* Search only solves a subset of a problem. It needs to be fit into some other components.
  * Search only provides a method once the problem is properly formulated.
* We need the following components
  * **state space**: a state is a representation of a configuration of the problem domain. The **state space** is a set of states included in our model of the problem.
  * **actions**, or **state space transitions**: models the actions of the problem domain. In our model the domain actions are modeleted as allowed transitions between states.
  * **initial state** and **goal**: the initial state represents the starting conditions, and the goal state or goal condiion one wants to achieve
  * **heuristics**: formulate various heuristics to help guide the search process.

## 8-puzzle

Consider the 8-puzzle.

```
1 2 3
4   5
6 7 8
```
We can consider our state space to be the possible configurations of the puzzle. We can move the white tiles, but we can also model this as moving the black space around. 

Choose an arbitrary state to be the goal state, eg.

```
1 2 3 
4 5 6
7 8  
```
The actions in the state space can be modeled as moving the blank space up down left right. Note that only when the blank space is in the middle can all 4 possible actions be taken!

There are 9! different configurations of the tiles, and the state space is divided into 2 disjoint parts.

We can also search over knowledge states: a set of world state that you believe to be possible.

If we know exactly what the state of the world is the knowledge state is the set containing only that world state.

## Vacuum

* We have a vacuum and two rooms.
* Room may be dirty or not dirty
* Cleaner can suck, or move left or right.


* Complete knowlege of the world means the aent knows exaclty which state it is.
* If we don't know anything, and our goal is to have all rooms clean. Do the action going left: we have now cut the knowledge space to all sets where the cleaner is in the left. We suck, and the knowledge space has collapsed again, and we can then move right, etc.

* AI search algorithms work with *implicitly defined* state spces. There are typically an exponential number of states: it is impossible to represent them all.

* If we model the states as a graph and actions as edges, we won't have a full representation of the graph because there are just too many states.

* We have rules or functions that can generate neighbours of a node (state), *only when we need to search those neighbours*.

* Actions are given as compact successor state functions \(S -> [S]\) that return the sets of states that can be transformed to by the available action.
  * The state must contain enough infrmation to allow the successor state function to generate its neighbours.


## Inputs
Search algorithms take the typical inputs

* Initial state \(\text{State } i\)
* A *successor* function \(\text{State }x -> [(\text{State }s, \text{Action }a)]\), where \(s\) can be reached from \(x\) by applying \(a\).
* The successor function yields a set of states that can be reached from \(x\) via *any* action. That means that 2 actions can lead to the same state.