# 2019-10-02

* All real games are too large to enumerate
  * chess has branching factor of roughly 35
  * depth 10 tree has 27000000000~ nodes
  * Even a-b pruning won't help
* We can llimit the depth of the search tree
  * Need a heuristic to estimate the values of the non terminal positions when we terminate
  * Often called euvaluation function
  * Often learned
* Heuristic in games
  * played new heuristics against old heuristics (ML)
* Realtime search
  * Run A* until we are forced to make a move or OOM
  * Use evaluation function \(f(n)\) to decide which path looks best
  * Take the first step along the best path by actually making the move
  * Restart search at the node we reach by making that move.
  * Backtracking search
  * Constraint satisfaction
* We represent states with feature vectors
  * Feature vectors provide a general state representation that is useful for many problems
## Feature Vector
  * A set of \(k\) variables
  * Each variable has a domain of different values
  * A state is specified by an assignment of a value of each variable.
  * Any combination of the value is a state
  * Partial state is specified by an assignment of a value of some of the variables.
  * Eg. 8-puzzle
    * We have 9 variables Cell[1][1], ..., Cell[3][3]
    * Values = {'Blank', 1, 2, ..., 8}
    * State is when each Cell[i][j] variable specifies what is in the position of the tile.
      * If we specify a value for each cell we have specified a state.
    * Some of these settings are illegal. Each variable must have a distinct value.
    * We want to find a state that satisfies certain constraints. This is a **constraint satisfaction problem**.
      * we just want the property of the goal state, we do not care about the sequence of moves.
      * compare to search, we care about finding a path
      * in CSP, we only care what state satisfies the goal
  * A constraint has a scope, which is a constraint over a subset of variables.
  * We an specify a constraint with a table.
    * But this table is exponential to the size of the subset
    * Often we can specify the constraint with a function to save space.
  * A solution to CSP is an assignment of a value to all of the variables such that every constraint is satisfied
  * This is the 3SAT problem, and a CSP is unsatisfiable if none exists. This is NP hard. 
  * An `ALL-DIFF` cosntraint can be encoded as a set of binary not equal constraints between all possible pairs of variables.
    * This collection has less pruning power.
  * A CSP could be viewed as a traditional search problem
    * Initial state is the empty assignment
    * Successor function: a value assign to any unassigned variable which does not cause any constraint to fail
    * Goal test: assignment is complete.
    * We don't care about finding a path, and it would be very inefficient.
  * We instead use **backtracking search** which is a specialization of DFS. We assign one variable at a time to build a variable, and the order we assign doesn't matter (but does matter for efficiency). 
    * If we falsify a constraint during the process, we immediately reject the current assignment.