# 2019-09-30

* Back up max and min values by DFS
* DFSMiniMax does not change any information, just backs up the value.
  * Won't remember anything else, only gives you the best move
* alpha-beta pruning
  * When using DFS, after generating values of some of \(n\)'s children, we can prove that we never reach \(n\) 
* Two types of pruning
  * Pruning of max nodes \(\alpha\)-cuts
    * \(\alpha\) is the highest value found so far (MAX wants this)
  * Pruning of min nodes \(\beta\)-cuts
    * \(\beta\) is the highest value found so far (MIN wants this)
  
## Alpha-cuts
* At a MAX node,
  * \(\beta\) keeps track of the lowest values founds so far (nodes to the left of \(n\) that have already been searched). We fix this when examining \(n\)
  * \(\alpha\) is the highest value found so far as we explore the nodes.
  * When \(\alpha \geq \beta\) we can stop expanding the children of \(n\). 
    * Min will never choose to move from \(n\)'s parent to \(n\) since it would choose one of \(n\)'s lower valued siblings.
    * MIN is trying to minimize its value. So whenever we find a value bigger than the smallest value, we can stop exploring that node.
      * cuts work one level below
  * BETA cuts work the same way, except when \(\beta \leq \alpha\), except when we want to MAXIMIZE min.
  * We want to find some heuristic that finds optimal values for alpha and beta to prune ASAP. Want in max cuts, we want to find a smaller beta, and larger alpha to prune asap.
  * With no pruning, we need to explore \(O(b^d)\) nodes. If move ordering is optimal (and maximize effect of \(\alpha-\beta)\), we can drop the branching factor to \(O(b^{d/2})\), which means we can search much deeper.
  * We need a strategy for ties.

## Expectimax Search
 * If we don't know what strat your opponent is using, Minimax might be too safe.
   * In the worst case, (very smart opponent) you do better
   * But you may lead to worse outcomes.
 * We should generalize it to consider probablistic outcomes, your opponent chooses its moves by chance
 * We want to pick a node that maximize the expected value.
   * Max node, and chance nodes, which are like min nodes but compute an expected value.