# 2019-11-01
Two astronomers make measurements \(M_1\) and \(M_2\) the number of stars \(N\). There is a small probability \(e\) that there can be an error of + or - 1. There is also a probability \(f\) that the telescope is out of focus. There are 2 boolean variables \(F_1, F_2\), if \(F_i = True\) it's out of focus. If its out of focus, we'll undercount the stars by 3 or more.

Which of these nets are accurate?

1. ```
   F1    F2
   |     |
   v     v
   M1   M2
    \   /
     \ /
      v
      N
   ```

This network is not in causal order! How many stars we measure in the sky does not affect how  many stars in the sky there are. But whether or not we're in focus or not does affect how many we measure. **This does not mean the network is wrong**. The network represents some distribution that tells the story.

The ordering F1, F2, M1, M2, N respect this net. If we use this ordering, we have the chain rule. Pr(F1, F2, M1, M2, N) = Pr(N | F1, F2, M1, M2) * Pr(M2 | M1, F1, F2) * Pr(M1 | F1, F2) * Pr(F2 | F1) * Pr(F1)

Can we simplify to

Pr(N | M1, M2) * Pr(M2 | F2) * Pr(M1|F1) * Pr(F1) * Pr(F2)

The simplification of Pr(M2 | M1, F1, F2) to Pr(M2 | F2) is not possible because M2 depends on M1! If M1 measures 6, we can expect 5, 6, or 7. So this network does not follow the story.

2. ```
   F1  N F2
    | / \ |
    v     v
    M1   M2
    ```

This network is in causal ordering, but that does not necessaryly mean its correct!
    
We'll use the ordering F1, F2, N, M1, M2, notice that the parents are before the children. 

Then by the chain rule Pr(F1, F2, N, M1, M2) = Pr(M2 | F1, F2, N, M1) * Pr(M1| F1, F2, N) * Pr(N | F1, F2) * Pr(F2 | F1) * Pr(F1).

Can we simplify this to Pr(F1) * Pr(F2) * Pr(N) * Pr(M1 | F1, N) * Pr(M2 | F2, N)? (the probability that the Bayes net claims to hold)

Again, Pr(F1) and PrF(2), and Pr(N | F1, F2) simplify. 

Pr(M1, F1, F2, N) simplifies, since we don't care about F2.

Does Pr(M2 | F1, F2, N, M1) simplify? We **know** the ground truth *N*, so indeed we can simplify to Pr(M2 | F2, N)! Contrast this with the previous example of Pr(M2 | M1, F1, F2) to Pr(M2 | F2), we **didn't know the ground truth!**. So the simplification was not valid there. But since we can simplify here this network is correct.

2. ```
   M1-->M2
   | \ / |
   |  v  |
   |  N  |
   |/   \|
   V     v 
   F1    F2
   ```

Let's use the ordering M1, M2, N, F1, F2.

Then Pr(M1, M2, N, F1, F2) = Pr(F2 | M1, M2, N, F1) * Pr(F1 | M1, M2, N) * Pr(N | M1, M2) * Pr(M2 | M1) * Pr(M1).

Writing out the Bayes net, we have Pr(F1 | M1, N) * Pr(F2 | M2, N) * Pr(N | M1, M2) * Pr(M2 | M1) * Pr(M1).

In chain rule decompositions we have it conditioned on a superset.

Can we simplify?

Pr(M1) is independent.
Pr(M2 | M1) is already in the form we need.
Pr(N | M1, M2) is in the form we need.
Pr(F1 | M1, M2, N) can simplify to Pr(F1 | M1, N), we don't care about M2, and know the ground truth.
Pr(F2 | M1, M2, N, F1) can simplify to Pr(F2 | M2, N), we know what we need to.

This net is correct.

The better net is net 2, since it is less connected.

## CPT
We want the CPT for P(M1 | N, F1).

M = {0, 1, 2, 3, 4}
N = {1, 2, 3}

The story says we will always undermeasure by 3 or more if F = True

|N1|F|M1 = 0|M1 = 1|M1 = 2|M1 = 3|M1 = 4|
|--|-|--|--|--|--|--|
|1|F|e|1 - 2e|e|0|0|
|2|F|0|e|1-2e|e|0|0|
|3|F|0|0|e|1-2e|e|0|
|1|T|1|0|0|0|0|
|2|T|1|0|0|0|0|
|3|T|1|0|0|0|0|

Notice that if our telescope is out of focus and we only have 1-3 stars in the sky, we have no chance of measuring any stars!

Also since e is the probability we have an error we only consider chance to over or undermeasure by 1.