# 2019-11-22
Consider variables
  * `A = Low | Medium | High`
  * `B = Bool`
  * `C = Bool`
  * `D = Low | Medium | High`

in the Bayes net

```
    A
   / \
  v   v
  B   C
  \   /
   v v
    D
```
And the CPTs
  * `P(A) = Low (0.25) | Medium (0.5) | High (0.25)`
  * `P(B | A)`
    |A|F|T|
    |-|-|-|
    |Low|0.9|0.1|
    |Medium|0.6|0.4|
    |High|0.1|0.9|
  * `P(C|A)`
    |A|F|T|
    |-|-|-|
    |Low|0.9|0.1|
    |Medium|0.6|0.4|
    |High|0.1|0.9|
  * `P(D | B, C)`
    |B|C|Low|Medium|High|
    |-|-|---|------|----|
    |T|T|0|0.1|0.9|
    |T|F|0.1|0.4|0.5|
    |F|T|0.5|0.4|0.1|
    |F|F|0.9|0.1|0|

How do we sample with a given distribution?

From `random(0, 1.0)`, we consider it to be Low if between 0 and 0.24, 0.25 to 0.74 is Medium, and 0.75 to 1.0 is high.

Say we generate a number 0.72, so we have `A = Medium`. Then we generate another number, say 0.28, so `B = False` according to our CPT. If we generate `0.88`, we have `C = True`. Generating the next random number `0.37`, which indicates `D = Low` given the CPT for `P(D|B = False, C = True)`. 

After generating a few samples, how do we find `P(A = High | D = Medium)`. Say we have 3 samples

1. `A = Med, B = F, C = T, D = Low`
2. `A = High, B = T, C = F, D = Med`
3. `A = Low, B = F, C = F, D = Low`

With only these three samples, we have that `P(A = High | D = Medium) = 1.0`, since we only have one sample with `D = Medium`

If we had some more samples

4. `A = Low, B = T, C = T, D = Med`
5. `A = Med, B = T, C = F, D = Med`

Then we keep samples 2, 4, 5, and see that `P(A = High | D = Medium) = 0.33`

If we condition on something rare, then we may reject a lot of samples.

We can also do Likelihood weighting.
Say we need condition `C = True`. 
1. Sample `0.72`, so we get `A = Medium`
2. Sample `0.28` from `P(B | A = Medium)`, so we get `B = False`
3. C is in evidence, and we must set `C = True`. We multiply the weight of the sample by probability that C was true, given `A = Medium`, `P(C = True | A = Medium) = 0.4` (from CPT). So `Weight = 0.4 `
4. Sample `D = False`. Then we get a sample 0 `{ A = M, B = F, C = T, D = F }` with weight 0.4. 


If we generate some more samples 

  1. `A = High, B = True, C = True, D = Medium, Wt = 0.9`
  2. `A = Low, B = False, C = True, D = Low, Wt = 0.1`
  3. `A = High, B = True, C = True, D = Medium, Wt = 0.9`

The weights are the probability of `C` given its parents. Then sample 2 is unlikely.

If we want to know `P(B = True | C = True)`.  Samples 1 and 3 have `B = True`, and the sum of their weights are 1.8. Divide that by the weight of all samples = `0.4 + 0.9 + 0.1 + 0.9 = 2.3`. So we get `P(B = True | C = True) = 1.8 / 2.3 = 0.78`


## KR 

Consider a first order language \(\mathcal{L}\)

* Constants =  A, B, C, D
* binary Predicate R
* unary predicates P and Q

for universals, we rarely use conjunctions because it's too weak. for existentials we rarely use disjunctions because its too weak. If we falsify the antecedent, we're done.