# 2019-11-27

* Model real world with a language \(\mathcal{L}\)
  * consider set of CS students, but we don't know complete set
  * KB is some set sentences in the language
  * we don't know precisely the semantic model
  * we can do a proof procedure
    * KB |- f by manipulating sentences in KB
  * without knowing what symbols in Language, or complete set
  * We want to know if f is true iff KB is true
  * KB restricts formal representations by things its true by
  * KB |= f means we don't know for sure the semantic interpretation we have, but any semantic interpretation that satisfies KB satisfies f.
  * We use resolution to do KB |- f, since resolution only works on particular types of formulae


* After skolemezation, we have all the universals variables with a different name. Then we convert the variables to prenix form by bringing all the universals to the front.
* We then manipulate the form to become a conjunction over disjunctions.
  * DeMorgans \(A \vee (B \wedge C) \iff (A \vee B) \wedge (A \vee C)\)
  * now we have a conjunction of clauses.
* Ground clauses are clauses with no variables in them. For ground clauses we can use syntactice identity to detect when we have a \(P\) and \(\neg P\) pair.
  * Can `(P jon, Q fred, R X)` be resolved with
    * `(not . P Y, R susan, R Y)`?
  * implicitly, `(not . P Y, R susan, R Y)` represents an entire set of ground clauses like
    * `(not . P jon, R susan, R jon)`
    * `(not . P fred, R susan, R fred)`
  * there is a specialization of the clause that can be resolved with `(P jon, Q fred, R X)`.
* For example, if we have
  * `(not . P X, S X, Q fred)`
  * `(P Y, R Y)`
* If we set `Y = X`, we have `(S Y, Q fred, R X)` that is the most general resolvent
* Unification
  * unification is a mechanism for finding the most general matching
  * First conider substitution
  * A sub. is a finite set of equations of the form 
    * `V = t`
  * where `V` is a variable and `t` is a term not containing `V`.
* We can apply a substitution \(\sigma\) to a formula `f` to obtain a new formula \(f\sigma\) by simultaneously replacing every variable mentioned in the left hand side of the substitution by the right hand side.
  * \(p(X, g(Y, Z)) [X=Y, Y=f(a)] \to p(Y, g(f(a), Z))\)
* We can compose two substitutions. \(\theta\) and \(\sigma\) to obtain substitution \(\theta \sigma\).
  * If we apply the composition once, it has the same effect as doing the first substitution, and then the second one.
  * Let \(\theta = \{X_1 = s_1, ..., X_m = s_m\}\)
    * \(\sigma = \{Y_1 = t_1, ..., Y_m = t_m\}\)
  * Computing \(\theta \sigma\)
    * We apply each \(\sigma\) to each RHS of \(\theta\) and add all of the equations of \(\sigma\)
      * \(S= \{X_1 = s_1\sigma, ..., X_m = s_m\sigma, Y_1 = t_1, ..., Y_m = t_m\}\)
    * Delete any identities, i.e. equations of the form \(V = V\)
    * Delete any equations \(Y_i = s_i\) where \(Y_i\) is equal to one of the \(X_j\) in \(\theta\).
      * (delete any variables that were in the second substitution)
* substitutions have an identity \(\epsilon = \{\}\) and are associative, i.e. \((f\theta)\sigma = f(\theta\sigma)\)
* A unifier is a substitution of two formulas \(f\) and \(g\) that makes them syntactically identical.
  * Not all formulas can be unified, substitutions only affect variables.
  * \(p(f(X), a)\) and \(p(Y, f(w))\) can not be unified, since we can not make \(a = f(w)\) with a substitution.
* A substitution \(\sigma\) between formulae \(f\) and \(g\) is an MGU if
  1. \(\sigma\) is a unifier
  2. For every other unifier \(\theta\) of \(f\) and \(g\) there exists a third substitution \(\lambda\) such that \(\theta = \lambda \sigma\)
* every other unifier is "more specialized" than \(\sigma\). The MGU of a pair of form

* MGUs are computable
  * line up two formulae and find the first subexpression where they disagree. The pair of subexpressions where they first disagree is called the disagreement set.
  * We successively fix disagreement sets until two formulae become syntactically identical
  * one of the terms have to be a variable when we look for it, as long as it does not contain \(V\).