# 2019-11-19

Consider \(S_0 = \{p(X, X); p(Y, f(Y)\}\)
Then,

\(k = 0, \sigma_0 = \{\}\)

1. \(D_0 = {X, Y}\), so \(\{X = Y\}\) is the first substitution. So now we have
   1. \(S_1 = \{p(Y, Y), p(Y, f(Y))\}\)
2. \(D_1 = \{Y, f(Y)\}\) fails, since one term is a variable, and the other contains the variable.

We can do this for non-ground clauses. 

Consider `(L, Q1, Q2, ..., Qk)` and `(not . M, R1, R2, ..., Rn)`. When there exists \(\sigma\) an MGU for L and M, we can get the new clause \((Q_1\sigma, ..., Q_k\sigma, R_1 \sigma, ..., R_k \sigma)\)

Notation
1. `(p(X) q(g(X)))`
2. `(r(a), q(Z), not . p(a))`

* `L = p(X), M = p(a)`
* \(\sigma = \{X = a\}\)
* `R[1a, 2c] { X = a } (q (g (a)), r(a), q(Z))`
  * `R` means resolution step
  * `1a` means the first (a-th) literal is in the first clause
  * `2c` means the third (c-th) literal is in the second clause
    * these are the eliminated literals
  * `{X = a}` is the substitution applied to resolve the literals

Consider resolving (this is after we negated the query!)
1. `p(a)`
2. `(not . d(Y), I(a, Y))`
3. `(not . p(X), not . q(Y), not . I(X, Y))`
4. `d(b)`
5. `q(b)`

Note that the `Y` in the second and 3rd clause are not the same! We can change the variable names,
1. `p(a)`
2. `(not . d(Y), I(a, Y))`
3. `(not . p(Z), not . q(R), not . I(Z, R))`
4. `d(b)`
5. `q(b)`
6. `R[3b, 5]{R=b}(not . p(Z), not . I(Z, b))`
7. `R[6a, 1] {Z=a} not . I (a, b)`
8. `R[7, 2b] {Y = b} not d(b)`
9. `R[8, 4] ()` contradiction.

## Answer extraction
We use variables in the query and keep track of how they're bound to generate the empty clause.

Consider
1. `father(art, jon)`
2. `father(bob, kim)`
3. `(not. father(Y, Z), parent(Y, Z))`
4. `(not . parent(X, jon), answer(X))` query: who is the parent of jon
5. `R[4, 3b]{Y = X, Z = jon} (not . father(X, jon), answer(X))`
6. `R[5, 1]{X = art} answer(art)`

So art is the parent of jon.

Answer extraction can do more complicated things, like return a disjunctive (OR) answer.
