# 2019-09-23 admissibility of h(n)
* WTS admissibility implies optimality
* Remember that cost can not be negative.
* Let \(h*(n)\) be the cost of an optimal path from \(n\) to goal.
  * Then \(h(n)\) is **admissible** if \(h(n) \leq h*(n)\).
  * admissible heuristic underestimates the true cost to a solution (optimistic)
* If there exists a solution, then there is an optimal (maybe many)
* Let \(n\) be an optimal solution, that is a path from initial state \(s_0\) to \(s_n\).
  * Each prefix of \(n\) is an optimal path to its end state. Otherwise we could replace the sub path with a cheaper path, but \(n\) is optimal.


**Proposition 2** A* with admissible heuristic never expands a node with \(f\) greater than \(C*\).
* At every stage, OPEN always contains a prefix of \(n\) otherwise A* would terminate. Hence A* never expands a node with f-value greater than that of the prefix.
* When the heuristic is admissible for any prefix of \(n\), such as \(n_i\), we have \(C* \geq f(n_i)\).
* Since A* never expands a node with f value greater than \(f(n_i)\), that means it never expands a node with f-value greater than \(C*\).
* The \(f\) values is bounded by \(C*\).


A* with admissible heuristic alway finds optimal solution if exists
1. If solution exists, by theorem 1 A* will terminate by expanding solution \(n\)
2. By Prop 2, \(f(n) \leq C*\)
3. Since \(n\) is  solution, \(h(n) = 0\), so \(f(n) = g(n) = cost(n)\).
4. \(C* \leq cost(n) = f(n)\) (since no solution can have cost lower than optimal)
5. So \(cost(n) = C*\), and A* is optimal.


## Consistency
* consistency is a stronger condition than admissibility
  * cant have a heurist
* \(h(n_1) \leq C(n_1, a, n_2) + h(n_2)\)
  * Where \(C(n_1, a, n_2)\) is the cost of getting from the final state \(n_1\) to \(n_2\) via the action \(a\).
* > estimate is always less than or equal to the estimated distance from any neighboring vertex to the goal, plus the cost of reaching that neighbor.
* > Formally, for every node N and each successor P of N, the estimated cost of reaching the goal from N is no greater than the step cost of getting to P plus the estimated cost of reaching the goal from P. 
* Intuitively, **estimated final cost always grows.** The f-value always goes up.
  * If \(n_2\) is expanded after \(n_1\) then \(f(n_1) \leq f(n_2)\)
  * If the heuristic is monotone, the first time A* expands a path \(n\), then \(n\)is a minimum cost path to \(s_n\).
    * cycle checking does not need to keep track of the minimum cost of getting to a state. 
  * The estimate to get to the goal from a node \(n\) is **always less than or equal** to the actual cost to get from \(n\) to a successor \(p\) plus the cost to get to the goal from \(p\).

## consistency implies admissible
**Proof**
* If no path exists from \(n\) to a goal then \(h*(n) = \infty\) so \(h(n) \leq h*(n)\).
* Else let \(<s_n, ..., g>\) be an optimal path from \(n\) to goal state \(g\). WTS \(h(n) \leq h*(n)\).
* Base: n = g
  * \(h(n) = h*(h) = 0\) QED
* Inductive:
  * \(h(n) \leq c(n, a_1, n_1) + h(n_1) \leq c(n, a_1, n_1) + h*(n_1) = h*(n)\).

## Time and space complexity
* When \(h(n) = 0\) for all \(n\), then \(h\) is monotone, and A* becomes uniform cost search!
* It can be shown when \(h(n) > 0\) for some \(n\) and still admissible, the number of node expanded can be no larger than UCS.
* 