# 2019-10-16 Reasoning Under Uncertainty

* many domains where deterministic actions are not true.
  * may not have fixed initial state \(S_0\).
  * may not know exactly what state we are in.
  * may not know what state we're in precisely
  * random component (dice roll)
  * side effects of drug
  * poker game
* **we have to gamble!**
  * we want to maximize ones expected utility 
  * **act rationally under uncertainty**
  * value attached to diff states
* how do we attach probabilities?
  * statistics
* probability over finite sets (defined over a set of atomic events \(U\))
  * Assigns real number \(Pr(e)\) for all \(e \in U\) such that \(Pr(F) = \Sigma_{e \in F} Pr(e)\).
  * Hence \(Pr(U) = 1\) and \(Pr(\emptyset) = 0\)
* probabilities associated with fixing one value.
  * \(Pr(V_1 = 1)\)?
* We don't want to do the sum directly.
* We may know a bunch of known variables:
  * \(Pr(V_1 = 1, V_3 = 2)\) is then the probability of events where \(V_1\) and \(V_3\) are fixed.
* If \(A \vee B\) happened, then this is equivalent to \(A \cup B\).
* If \(A \wedge B\) happened, then we have this is equivalent to \(A \cap B\).
* We can do approximation techniques based on sampling by simplifying using conditional independence.
* Use conditional independence to simplify the problem.
* Variables form partitions over the probability space
* normalization
  * take a vector of numbers, and divide every number by the sum
  * new set of numbers sum to 1
* We can **force** 2 variables to be independent, using variable independence. No matter what value \(V_1\), \(V_2\) is assigned, we have an independence.

* Unconditional independence is quite rare.
  * Pr(Raining|Traffic) = Pr(Raining)
    * No, heavy traffic is evidence for rain
  * Pr(Umbrella|Traffic) = Pr(Umbrella)
    * No, heavy traffic is evidence for rain which would influence umbrella usage
  * Pr(Umbrella|Raining)
    * Raining is the main reason for using the Umbrella
* Conditional indepndence is quite common
  * Pr(Traffic, Umbrella | Raining) = Pr(Traffic|Raining) * Pr(Traffic|Umbrella)
