# 2019-11-11
* Independence vs relevance
  * Every variable \(X_i\) is conditionally independent of all of its non descendants given its parents:
    * \(Pr(X_i | S \cup Par(X_i)) = Pr(X_i | Par(X_i)\) for any subset \(S \subseteq NonDescendents(X_i)\).
  * If we know the value of the parents, and a bunch of non descendant variables of \(X_i\), we don't need them.
  * D-Separation
    * separates a bunch of variables and determines them to be conditionally independent
    * How do we determine if two variables X, Y are independent given a set of variables E?
    * A set of variables \(E\) d-separates \(X\) and \(Y\) if it **blocks every undirected path** in the bayes net between X and Y.
      * Don't really care about the orientation of edges.
    * X and Y are conditionally independent given evidence E if E d-separates X and Y.
      * BN gives us an easy way to tell if two variables are independent by setting E = \(\emptyset\), otherwise they are conditionally independent given E.
    * Blocks means:
      * Let \(P\) be an undirected path from \(X\) to \(Y\).
      * Let \(E\) be a set of known variables.
      * \(E\) blocks path \(P\) iff there is some node \(Z \in P\) such that
        * \(Z \in E\) and one arc from \(X \to Z\) entering, and one arc \(Z \to Y\) exiting.
        * \(Z \in E\) and one arc from \(Z \to X\) exiting, and one arc \(Z \to Y\) exiting.
        * \(Z \notin E\) and one arc from \(X \to Z\) entering, and one arc from \(Y \to Z\) entering, and
          * Z **is not in E**
          * No descendent of Z is in \(E\), that is \(Descendents(Z) \cap E = \emptyset\)
* Refer to subway graph
  * Flu blocks the only path to thermometer, so no matter how we got the flu, we have a chance to exhibit high temp
  * If we know flu, then Aches and Fever are independent (can go upwards)
  * Flu and malaria are independent given no evidence, both go to fever, but fever is not in evidence, and neither is thermometer.
    * no symptoms correlate. 
    * if we have a fever, they are dependent now -- one of flu or malaria explains the other away.
  * Subway and Trip become dependent if we know Thermometer
    * path goes through fever -- double in, so its unblocked.
  * If we know therm and malaria, they then become independent.
    * malaria blocks by in-and-out in evidence.
* Refer to D-Separation example
  1. A and E with no evidence
     * AGHBE is blocked by B, we have an in and out, not in evidence
     * other paths are not blocked, so dependent
  2. A and E with C?
      * AGHBE blocked, B not in evidence
      * AGDBE unblocked
  3. A and E given G and C?
      * G and C block paths AG*, AC*
  4. FD block paths from AGD. note 
  5. B blocks all paths

* Temporal reasoning over time
  * Hidden Markov models
  * bayes nets generalize these models
  * want to reason about sequence of observations
  * Have one feature \(X\) (which may have a large set of values). Want to track the probability of different values of X over time.
  * Make multiple copies of X for each time point \(i\).
  * Markov model specified by the following assumptions
    * Current state \(X_t\) is conditionally independent of the earlier states given the previous state.
      * \(Pr(X_t | X_1, ..., X_{t-1}) = Pr(X_t | X_{t-1})\)
    * Transitions between \(X_{t-1}\) and \(X_t\) are determined by probabilities that **do not change over time**.
      * Probability that you're in a particular state, and that you move to a new state
      * \(Pr(X_t | X_{t-1})\) is the same for all times \(t\).      
  * This gives the following Bayes Net 
    * X1 -> X2 -> X3 -> ... XN
  * D-separation shows us \(X_{t-1}\) is conditionally independent of all future states given the next state. 
* Refer to weather example
  * States `X = Rain | Sun`
  * Initial distribution \(Pr(X_1 = Sun) = 1.0\)
  * CPT
  |\(X_{t-1}\)|\(X_t\)|\(Pr(X_t | X{t-1})\)|
  |-----------|-------|--------------------|
  |sun|sun|0.9|
  |sun|rain|0.1|
  |rain|sun|0.3|
  |rain|rain|0.7|

  What is the distribution after 1 step? that is \(Pr(X_2)\)?
  * Sum out rule with \(X_1\)
  * \(Pr(X_2 = Sun) = Pr(X_2 = sun | X_1 = sun)P(X_1 = sun) + Pr(X_2 = sun|X_1 = rain)Pr(X_1 = rain)\)
  * 0.9 * 1.0 + 0.3 * 0 = 0.9
  * What is distro for \(Pr(X_t)\)?
    * \(Pr(X_1)\) is known
    * \(Pr(X_t) = \Sigma_{X_{t-1}} Pr(X_{t-1}, X_t) = \Sigma_{X_{t-1}} Pr(X_t | X_{t-1})Pr(X_{t-1})\)
  * We can iterate \(t\), this is called a forward progression.
  * This converges, no matter from which starting state, we end up with Pr(X_{\infty}) = 0.75
  * this is called a stationary distribution, where it **does not change on a forward progression**
  * Every time we're in a state we can emit some evidence
* HMM is defined by
  * Initial distribution \(Pr(X_1)\)
  * Transitions \(Pr(X_t | X_{t - 1})\)
  * Emissions \(Pr(E_t | X_t)\)
* Given some state \(X_t\), we can calculate another probability \(Pr(E_t | X_t)\).