# 2019-09-20

Define a state space of \(\mathbb{N}\). Define the actions with uniform cost

\[
 a_1: n \to 2n + 1
\]

\[
 a_2: n \to 2n + 2
\]


There are no cycles in this state space.

BFS, initial state is 0, and goal state is 6.

Then OPEN looks like so

```
<0>
<1, 2> // expand 0
<2, 3, 4> // expand 1
<3, 4, 5, 6> // expand 2
<4, 5, 6, 7, 8> // expand 3
<5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10> // expand 4
<6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12> // expand 5
```

Notice that all the nodes are still on OPEN when we have found 6. 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 are on level 4, but they are still generated with BFS.

Now lets see iterative deepening search

```
# L = 0
    <0>
    <>
# L = 1
    <0>
    <1, 2>
    <2>
    <>
# L = 2
    <0>
    <1, 2>
    <3, 4, 2> # DFS
    <4, 2>
    <2>
    <5, 6>
    <6>
```

Path tree, notice with IDS we do DFS
```
         0
        / \
       /   \
      /     \
     /       \
    1         2
   /\        / \
  3  4      5   6
 /\ / \    / \
7 8 9 10  11 12
```

We only know something is goal when we expand a node.

## Make Change

Say we need to give back $24.30. We have a simple algorithm is just do keep giving the highest value note until you can't anymore.

1. Give a $20
2. Can't give $20, check $10
3. Can't give $10 check $5
4. Can't give $5 check $2
5. Give 2 * $2
6. ... etc

We can also do this with search. Use this with cents

Define actions 

\[
    x \to x - 2000 \\
    x \to x - 1000 \\
    x \to x - 500  \\
    x \to x - 200  \\
    x \to x - 100  \\
    x \to x - 25   \\
    x \to x - 10   \\
    x \to x - 5    \\
\]

Our state is \(\{x \in \mathbb{N} | x = 5k, k \in \mathbb{N} > 0 \}\). (We don't use pennies anymore.)
Our initial state is some number of change we need to return, and our goal is 0.

If we use BFS, we would give the shortest solution (largest bills first), because BFS is optimal.

If we use DFS, if the children are ordered, we give the shortest solution. But always, we still give a solution.

What circumstances do we have uniform cost search?

What if we had a limited number of each coin?

> State (# cents, #20, ... # 5)

We can add a precondition to our actions, for example

\[
    \text{If } \#20 > 0\\
    x \to x - 2000, \#20 \to \#20 - 1
\]

## Assignment
* Just need to modify functions to keep track of OPEN
* No need to worry about how to deal with the state transition
* We have an object with 3 functions
  * `getStartState`
  * `isGoalState`
  * `getSuccessorStates`