# 2019-09-25 Game Tree Search

* So far we have assumed agent has complete control of environment.
  * State space where actions transform states to states.
  * **State does not change until the agent changes it**
* This assumption is not always reasonable
  * Against stochastic environments (e.g. weather, traffic accidents)
  * Adversarial agents whose interest conflicts with yours
    * Search can find path to a goal state, but since the state can be changed by other agents, the actions might not lead you to the goal.

* We need to generalize our view of search, so we can handle changes when we are not in control of the agent.
  * Does not handle randomness (stochasticity)
  * We still assume that the action will be executed
* We yield *game tree search*
  * 2 or more agents
  * Agents acting to maximize their own profits
  * May not have a positive effect on our profits.
  
* What makes something a game?
  * There are two or more agents making changes to the world (the state)
  * Each agents has their own goal
  * Each agent acts independently
  * Co-operation only occurs if both parties benefit
* Two player
  * each player has a turn
  * finite number of states and moves from each stats
    * if the game is too big, its functionally infinite
    * can extend to infinite games by using cutoffs
* **Alpha-beta search**
  * assume that the games are zero-sum. Total payoff is constant, and you win what the other player loses
  * games can be cooperative, some outcomes are preferred by both, or values are diametrically opposed (requires some techniques)
  * Deterministic: no chance or randomness involved
  * Perfect information: all aspects of the state are fully observable

* What are examples of games that fulfil this criteria? (2-player zero sum discrete finite deterministic games of perfect information)
  * Go
  * Chess
  * Checkers
  * Rock paper scissors
* Prisoner's Dilemma
    * 2 prisoners in separate cells
    * sheriff doesn't have enough evidence
      * if one defects then confessor goes free, other sentenced 4 years
      * if both defect, both sentenced 3 years
      * if both cooperate both sentence to 1 year
    * **NOT ZERO SUM**, because payoff is 4 minus sentence.

## RPS
* Normal form games
  * we can just set up the game as a table, but the table get too big
  * Only single move each
```
    R   P   S
  +---+---+---+
R | 
P |
S |
```

We want to solve two player zero-sum games.
* Two players Max and Min
* Set of positions P (states of games)
* Starting position p in P.
* Terminal positions where the game in end, T subset P
* Set of directed edges \(E_{max}\), and they are max's moves, and vice versa for min.
* Utility or payoff function \(U : T \to \mathbb{R}\) (payoff for max)
  * we don't need a payoff for min? because it's 0 sum, we have -U payoff for min.
  
* The positions have all you need to play the game, such as whose turn it is.

We need the following functions for GTS
  * initial state START
  * `player(P)` returns the player whose turn it is in position P
  * `actions(P)` returns the set of legal moves for player(P)
  * `result(P, m)` is the new position after making the move
  * `terminal(P)` is whether or not the position is terminal
  * `utility(P)` is the utility of the position P

A game tree has
  * layers reflecting alternating moves
  * full tree is too large to enumerate
  * player *max* doesn't decide which terminal state is reached by itself, it must have a strategy
    * it must know what to do for **each possible move that *min* does.**
    * a sequence of actions won't suffice, we need a branching tree of actions.
* **Minimax strategy**
  * assume other player always plays the best move
  * we always play a move that will minimize the payoff that could be gained by the other player
  * minimizing the other player's payoff maximizes our own
  * **if we know that Min will play poorly in some circumstances there may be a better strategy**.
  * Minimax plays it safe, and gives the highest payoff for Max over all possible strategies Min could play.
* Conceptually, we build the full search tree, and evaluate utility of all nodes
  * then back values up the tree of U(t).
  * The utility of a min node is minimum of the utility of the children
  * The utility of a max node is the max of the utility of the children.
  * Minimax always moves to the best child, and min moves to the min value
* We need to avoid using exp space
  * need to do repeated DFS, and only get the value for the best move for MAX at some P.
  * The game tree needs to have a finite depth for this to work.
  * Space efficient.
  * We need to basically explore the entire tree, and we can't be lucky.