
# 2019-10-30 Hypergraph of Bayes Net

To eliminate \(X_i\) in the hypergraph we
  * remove the vertex \(X_i\)
  * Create a new hyperedge \(H_i\) equal to the union of all the hyperedges that contain \(X_i\) minus \(X_i\)
  * Remove all of the hyperedges containing \(X\) from the hypergraph
  * Add new Hyperedge \(H_i\) to the hypergraph.

* Using buckets to eliminate factors corresponds to this action of removing vertices of hypergraphs

* Eliminating the sequence in a diff order yields a different end hypergraph
* Given an ordering \(\pi\) of the variable sand an initial hypergraph \(\mathcal{H} = H_0, ..., H_n\) yields a sequence of hypergraphs where \(H_n\) contains only one vertex.

* The elimination width \(\pi\) is the maximum size (number of variables) of any hyperedge among any of the hypergraphs in \(\mathcal H\). 
* Hence the elimination width (the biggest hyperedge we ended up with) was \(A, B, E, D\), so the width is 4. 

* If the elimination width of an ordering \(\pi\) is \(k\), then the complexity of VE using that ordering is \(2^{\mathcal{O}(k)}\).
* Eliminating width \(k\) means that at some stage in the elimination process a factor involving \(k\) variables was generated.
* The factor will require \(2^{\mathcal{O}(k)}\) space to store, and \(2^{\mathcal{O}(k)}\) operations to process 
* This is with respect to one *fixed* ordering.
* The elimination width of \(\mathcal H\) is the MINIMUM elimination width of any of the \(n!\) orderings of variables \(X_i\) minus 1.
* In the worst case, the elimination width is equal to the number of variables &mdash; exponential complexity.
  * No matter what ordering we choose, the best we can possibly do is \(w^2\) where \(w\) is the width of the hypergraph &mdash;the minimum width of any ordering of \(\mathcal H\)
* Note that there are many measures similar to elimination width &mdash;tree width is another common measure.
* The CPTs that are inputs for this, this is already. \(w\) is always bigger than \(k\). In some cases the elimination width is equal to \(k\), in those cases VE operates in time linear to size of its input
* A polytree is a singly connected Bayes net, there is only one path between any two nodes.
  * no cycles, a node can have multiple parents
  * Good orderings are easy to find
    * we eliminate a singly connected node at each state
    * because we have a polytree, one such node exists at each elimination stage
    * size of factors in the tree never increase
    * elimination width = size of largest input CPT.
* Min fill heuristic
  * greedy heuristic that eliminates the next variable that creates the smallest size factor.
  * this heuristic always solves polytrees in linear time
* Restrict attention to relevant variables. With query \(q\) and evidence \(E\)
  * \(q\) itself is relevant
  * if any node \(Z\) is relevant, its parents are relevant
  * if \(e \in E\) is a descendant of a relevant node then \(E\) is relevant
* We restrict attention to the subnetwork only comprising relevant variables when evaluating \(q\).