# 2019-10-09 Generalized Arc Consistency

* > A variable x is generalized arc consistent (GAC) with a constraint if every value of the variable can be extended to all the other variables of the constraint in such a way the constraint is satisfied.

* Why use GAC?
  * Plain backtracking only checks constraints when it has `numUnassigned = 0`
  * Forward checking only checks when it has `numUnassigned = 1`
  * GAC **checks all constraints** every time.
* What is consistency?
  * A constraint \(C(V_1, ..., V_n)\) is GAC with respect to \(V_i\) iff \(\forall V_i, \exists V_1, ... V_i, V_{i+1}, ... V_n\) that satisfy \(C\).
  * \(C(V_1, ..., V_n)\) is GAC iff it is GAC with respect to every variable in it's scope.
  * A CSP is GAC if all of its constraints are GAC.
  * We need to achieve GAC for a CSP by achieving GAC for all constraints, and GAC for a constraint by having a constraint GAC for every variable in its scope.
* **Arc inconsistent**
  * Say there is a value \(d\) of \(V_i\) that is not consistent, meaning no assignments to other variables that satisfy the constraint when \(V_i = d\). Then \(d\) is arc inconsistent. We can remove \(d\) in the domain of \(V_i\), since this value can not lead to a solution in any case.
  * \(C(X,Y): X>Y Dom(X)=\{1,5,11\} Dom(Y)=\{3,8,15\}\)
    * Choose \(X = 1\). Then no value of \(Y\) satisfy (requires\(1 > Y\)), so we remove \(1\) from \(X\).
    * Choose \(Y=15\). There is no value of \(X\) that satisfies (requires \(X > 15\)), so we remove \(15\) from \(Y\).
    * Obtain domains \(Dom(X) = \{5, 11\}, Dom(Y) = \{3, 8\}\)
* **Propagation**
  * Pruning domain of a variable to make it GAC can make another constraint no longer GAC
    * Every time we prune a value we need to re-achieve GAC.
      * Done by running `GacEnforce` iterating over constraints that need to be made GAC 
      * Add constraints that may no longer be GAC back to queue
      * Stops when queue is empty.
* **Non-GAC**
  * Consider \(C\) a GAC constraint. How can it become not GAC?
  * For every value \(d_i\) in the current domain of \(V_i\) there exists values of \(d_1, ..., d_k\) s.t \(C(V_1 = d_1, ..., V_i = d_i, ... V_k = d_k)\) satisfies.
    * The tuple of values, one for every variable with \(V_i = d_i\) is said to be a **support** for \(V_i = d_i\) in \(C\).
  * \(C\) is GAC if \(\forall V_i \in C\) (domain of C), every value \(d_i \in V_i\) has a support in \(C\)
  * A constraint can become non-GAC when some variable in scope loses support.
  * Tuple might have an assignment \(V_i = d_i\), but \(d_i\) is no longer in the domain of \(V_i\).
  * If a variable in the scope of \(C\) has a value pruned from the domain, \(C\) might no longer be GAC. If no values were pruned, \(C\) is still GAC.
  * Need \(hasSupport(C, V, d) \to Boolean\) returning true if \(V = d\) has a support in \(C\).
    * How do we implement this??
      * Iterate all possible assignments to see if any combination along with \(V = d\) satisfy
      * Store all supports (one for every pair \(V = d\)), check if any of these are still in the variable's current domain
      * Store one support for \(V=d\), if lost, use 1. to find  new one.
      * This obviously exponential to the arity of the constraint
        * Checking this way is limited to constraints of small arity