# 2017-09-07

## Why Proofs Are Important
 * An explanation of why things are true without logical holes.
 * Math has objects to allow for these explanations.
### Example Proof
Consider the function \(\pi(x)  = \text{number of prime numbers less than or equal to x}\)

For example, 
\(\pi(2) = 1\)
\(\pi(3)=2\)
\(\pi(100)=25\)

The logarithmic integral function \(li(x)\) closely approximates \(\pi(x)\), but for every integer \(n\) anyone has ever tried, \(\pi(x) - li(x) < 0\).

It was proved that  \(\pi(x) - li(x)\).actually switches signs infinitely many times as the value of \(n\) increases. The first number that the sign switches was proposed to be \(10^{10^{10^{964}}}\).

Since then the bound was improved to \(1.4\times10^{364}\)


## Warm Up

Consider the statement \(\text{No two students in this class are not on fire.}\)

Which of the following statements are these equivalent to?

1. \(\text{All students in this class, except at most one, are on fire}\).
2. \(\text{Two students in this class are on fire}\)
3. \(\text{For any pair of students in this class, one of them are on fire}\)
4. \(\text{At least two students in this class are not on fire}\)
5. \(\text{If I choose two students in this class, and one of them is not on fire, then the other one is on fire}\).

Statements 1, 3, and 5 are equivalent to the statement considered. We can rephrase the first statement to mean essentially that given any two students in the class, at least one of them must be on fire. This further implies that there can be at most only one student that is not undergoing combustion in the entire class, as if there were two, then one could pick those two non-combusting students. Thus, it's **negation**, is statement 4. 

## Sets

Here we are writing these sets in a simplier form.

Remember that interval notation implies a domain of real numbers \(\mathbb{R}\), in other words,

$$$
{[a, b] = { \{ x \in \mathbb{R} : a \leq x \leq b } \}}
$$$
$$$
{(a, b) = {\{x \in \mathbb{R} : a < x < b}\}}
$$$

1. \([2,4]\cup(3,10)=[2,10)\)
2. \([2,4]\cap(3,10)=(3,4]\)
3. \((\pi,3) = \emptyset\)
4. \([7,7] = \{7\}\)
5. \((7,7) = \emptyset\)
6. \(A=\{x \in \mathbb{R} : x^2 < 7 \} = (-\sqrt{7}, \sqrt{7})\)
7. \(B=\{x \in \mathbb{Z} : x^2 < 7 \} = \{-2, -1, 0, 1, 2\}\)
8. \(C=\{x \in \mathbb{N} : x^2 < 7 \} = \{0,1,2\}\)

## Definitions

### Compliment

Given two sets \(A\) and \(B\), \(\text{A without B}\), is defined as
$\(A \setminus B = \{x \in A : x \in B\}\)$

In other words, the set of all things that are in \(A\), but not \(B\).

### Symmetric Difference

Given two sets \(A\) and \(B\) **the symmetric difference between** \(A\)  and \(B\), is defined as
$\(A \triangle B = (A \setminus B)\cup(B\setminus A)\)$

In other words, the symmetric difference between \(A\) and \(B\), is the set of all things in \(A\) and \(B\), but not both sets. This is equivalent to

$\((A\cup B)\setminus(A\cap B)\)$

In terms of computer science, this is similar to an exclusive OR operation.

## Problem 1

Given the following sets

* \(A = \{\text{All male students in the class}\}\)
* \(B = \{\text{Students sitting in the first two rows}\}\)

\(A \setminus B\) is the set of all male students except those in the first two rows.
\(B \setminus A\) is the set of all non-male students in the first two rows.
\(A \triangle B\) is all male students in the class except those in the first two rows, and all non-male students in the first two rows.

Notice how \(A \triangle B\) is equivalent to \((A \setminus B) \cup (B \setminus A)\).

## Negations
A negation is a statement that must be provably **FALSE** in order for another statement to be provably **TRUE**. Here we have some statements and their negations.

1. Every student in this room has a cellphone.
   *At least one student in this room does not have a cellphone.*
2. There is a province in Canada with fewer than 1000 inhabitants.
   *All provinces in Canada have greater than 1000 inhabitants.*
3. Ivan likes coffee and tea.
  *Ivan dislikes coffee, or dislikes tea.* **Note: The option of Ivan disliking both coffee or tea is implied.**
4. Every building at UofT contains a classroom with no windows.
  *There is a building at UofT where all the classrooms have at least one window.*
  This last example can be expressed pseudo-mathematically as follows
  \(\text{Let } A = \{\text{Buildings at UofT}\}\)
  \(P = \forall \text{ building } B \in A, \exists \text{ a classroom } x \in B \text{ such that } x \text{ has no windows.}\)
  \(\neg P = \exists \text{ a building } B \in A, \forall \text{ classroom } x \in B \text { such that } x \text{ has at least one window}\)

## Empty Set

The statement 

$$$
\text{There is a purple giraffe in the lecture hall.}
$$$

is provably **FALSE**, as the set of all giraffes in the lecture hall is equal to the emty set \(\emptyset\).

However, the statement 

$$$
\text{All giraffes in the lecture hall are purple.}
$$$

is provably **TRUE**, since as one can not produce a giraffe from \(\emptyset\), so it can not be proven false.

## Domination

*(This is a problem from a previous year’s first problem set.)*

If \(A\) and \(B\) are both sets of real numbers, we say \(B\) dominates \(A\) if the following is true:

$$$
\forall a \in A, \exists b \in B, \text{ such that } a < b
$$$

### Problem
Find two non-empty sets of real numbers \(A\) and \(B\) such that the following three things are true:

1. \(A \cap B = \emptyset\)
2. \(A \text{ dominates } B\)
3. \(B \text{ dominates } A\)

> **Personal Notes**.
> **Solution**
> \(A = \mathbb{R} \setminus \mathbb{Z}\)
> \(B = \mathbb{Z}\).
> 
> **Proof**
> By construction of \(A\) and \(B\), no members of \(A\) exist in \(B\), \(A \cap B = \emptyset\) 
> For any real number \(a \in A\), there exists an integer \(\lceil a	\rceil + 1 \in B\) where \(a < \lceil a	\rceil + 1\). Hence, \(B\) dominates \(A\).
> Conversely, if we take \(\epsilon\) to be some aribtrarily small non-integer real number, such that \(\epsilon > 0\), for any integer \(b \in B\), there exists a real number \(b + \epsilon \in A\), such that \(b < b + \epsilon\).
> Hence, \(A\) dominates \(B\). \(\blacksquare\)