# 2020-01-21 Syntax

* Morphology is intimately connected with syntax
* Syntax can be represented as a hierarchal structure as constituents
* Constituency tests for structure
* Morphology vs syntax
  * Lexical categories are the same as syntactic categories
  * Phrases have the same categories
  * Combinations that are morphological in some languages are syntatic in other lamguages, and vice versa.
* We can have morphological criteria, as well as syntactic criteria, and they are picking out the same category
  * For example, N can take -s (morphological), and can follow Det (A)
  * V can take -ing, and can follow 'will' or 'to'
  * A can take -ly to make Adv, and can occur between Det and N
* When words combine to form larger units "phrases", they share distributional properties determined by category.
  * N can take possessive -s morphology
    * (Elizabeth)'s hat
    * (the queen)'s hat
    * (the queen of England)'s
      * Not England's hat, the queen's hat
    * (a queen you've never heard of)'s hat
      * 'of' is a preposition, not a noun, but the phrase still makes sense
  * N can be the subject of a sentence, appearing to the left of V
    * (Elizabeth) waved
    * (the queen) waved
    * (the queen of England) waved
* Languages differ in the extent which the basic components are expressed via word formation, vs phrase formation.
  * A **subject** identifies an individual or entity the sentence is about
  * The **predicate** assigns some property to the subject.
  * In `Elizabeth waved`, the subject is `Elizabeth`, and `waved` is the predicate.
* The traditional morphosyntactic types
  * **Analytic** languages have sentences composed entirely of free morphemes
    * eg. Mandarin Chinese
      ```
      [wo men  tan tsin  le]
      1st PLR play piano PST
      We played the piano
      ``` 
  * **Agglutinative** languages allow affixation, words can be composed of 2 or more morphemes, (i.e. there can be bound morphemes). In general, there is a 1:1 mapping of form and meaning: the meaning "1st person plural" requires a separate morpheme to express "1st person" and "plural".
    * eg. Swahili
      * `Ninasoma` I am reading
        ```
        [ni -na -soma]
        I  PRE  read
        I am reading
        ``` 
      * `Anasoma` He/she is reading
      * `Nilisoma` I read \[past\]
      * `Nitasoma` I will read
      * `Tunasoma` We are reading
      * `Tutasoma` We will read
      * In this case we can hypothesize `-soma` means "to read", and `ni` means "I". `-na` is left as the present continuous tense marker, and `-li` seems to be the past marker. Perhaps `-ta` is a future tense marker. 
  * **Synthetic** languages allow affixation, words can be composed of 2 or more morphemes. A 1-to-many mapping of form and meaning is allowed (morphemes can be fused)
    * ['abl-o] "I am speaking" 
      * -[o] suffix means 1st person singular, present tense
    * ['abl-a] "s/he is speaking"
      * -[a] suffix means 3rd person singular present tense
    * [abl-'o] "s/he spoke"
      * -[o] suffix with stress measns 3rd person past tense
  * **Polysynthetic** languages are highly morphological, and words can be composed of many morphemes. May have long "sentence words"
    * West Greenlandic
      * ```
        tusaa -nngit  -su        -usaar  -tuaannar-sinnaa-nngi-vip-putit
        hear    NEG INTRANS.PAR  pretend  all the time can NEG really 2ND SNG.Indivative
        you can not pretent to not be hearing all the time
        ```
## Word Order
Often when we think of syntax, word order is the first thing that comes to mind.
* Word order is a point of variation across language
* Major way of classification is 
  * Subject
  * Verb
  * Object
* Kelly ate the cookie
  * Kelly is the subject
  * ate is the verb
  * cookie is the object
* 6 logical possibilities of SVO
  * SVO
  * SOV
  * VSO
  * VOS
  * OSV
  * OVS
* Object first languages are quite rare, but all are attested
* Word order involves far more than the basic order of constituents SVO.
  *  Consider any Dr. Seuss book
* What is the knowledge speakers are accessing when they identify ungrammatical sequences of words?
  * Memorization of observed sequences?
    * Infinitely many word combinations. More than 99% of sentences occur only once (pp. 514)
  * Memorization of category sequences? 
    * D N V D N : `the dog chased the cat`, and `*the chased dog cat the` 
    * But also `*those air put a compliments`
    * "many sequences of categories are so rare you will hear them only once if at all" (pp. 514)
  * Consider a **parsing algorithm** (a program that finds syntactic structures in strings)
    * 29.8 Million possible orderings of a single sentence with 17 words
    * Number of acceptable orderings represent about 8.4 millionth of a percent of possible orderings
    * Syntax is very restraining, but expressive
  * Linguistic knowledge involves **recursive rules** that are not sensitive to properties like length.
    * **finite** devices that allow strings of morphemes to be infinitely long in principle, even if there are finitely many morphemes in a language (p. 514)
    * For example, `A -> A B`
      * Any string `A` can be decomposed to `A B`.
## Methology
* Thought experiments
* Manipulating syntactic strings
* NB: We want to work with **minimal pairs**, otherwise we can't make good inferences
  * A **minimal pair** is a pair of forms that differ in just one property that is being manipulated to answer a question.
  * For example, is [m] an active segment of English phonology
    * `mat`
    * `bat`
  * Not a minimal pair
    * `mat`
    * `bathe`

## What is a constituent?
A constituent is some syntactic string that a speaker can manipulate as a single structure. More formally, 
> **def'n Constituent**
> A set of nodes that is exhaustively dominated by a single higher node.
> **def'n exhaustive domination**
> A node \(M\) exhaustively dominates a set of nodes \(S[1, 2, ..., n]\) iff every node in \(S\) is dominated by \(M\), and \(M\) does not dominate any node not in \(S\).

Consider the phrase `in the kitchen`

``` 
     M
    /|\
   / | \
  /  |   \  
 P  Det   N
 |   |    | 
in  the  kitchen
```

We apply **constituency tests** on minimal pairs of sentences. We use four major types of tests, and we are concerned with **positive results**: negative results are inconclusive.
* Substitution tests
  * Create a minimal pair of 2 sentences, and one is the target sentence. The second sentence manipulates a substring by replacing it with a single word.
    * The queen of England waved
    * She waved
  * A good minimal pair does not alter the truth conditions of the targest sentence: both could in principle be used for the same situation.
  * If a string of words can be substituted by something we have good reason to believe is a unit (such as a word), we can infer that the substituted string is also a unit (a constituent)
  * To be safe, we want the substituting word to have no internal structure. If possible, it is preferable to use single words that are roots (not always possible, pp. 518)
* Elipsis tests
  * We replace a substring with the null string, and see if content is introduced thst is understood even if its left unsaid
  * Usually done in the context of a conversation
    * A says: That girl in the blue coat will not put a picture of Bill on your desk before tomorrow
    * B says: Yes, but this girl in the red coat will put a picture of Bill on your desk before tomorrow.
  * Then we elide
    * Yes but this girl in the red coat will [...]
  * Elipses only seems to be able to affect a continuous string
  * A string that can be elided is a constituent.
  * Types of elipsises
    * Verb Phrase (VP) elipsis
      * the constituent that is elided is VP
      * In English, we can elide VP with "do so" instead of the null string
    * Noun Phrase (NP) elipsis
      * Frank brought his dog
      * Juan brought his ~~dog~~ too
    * Tag question elipsis
      * That girl will not go to school, will she ~~go to school~~?
        * 'will she go to school' is elided
      * In English, there is a *polarity effect*, if the main clause is positive, the tag question is negative, and vice versa.
        * That girl will go to school, *won't she* ~~go to school~~?
* Coordination tests
  * Coordination structures involve complex syntactic structures that link two or more like elements
    * It's raining [cats] and [dogs]
    * Matilda [went to the store] and [bought a tomato]
  * if the substring can be coordinated, it must be a constituent 
* Movement tests
  * 