# Trees
A tree is a connected undirected graph with no cycles.

```

O     O
 \   /
  O-O-O
 /   \
O     O
```
There is exactly one path between any two nodes
IN this example, \(n\) = 7 nodes. \(m =\) 6 edges. Any tree with \(n\) nodes has exactly \(n-1\) edges.

If you add any edge to a tree it creates a unique cycle. If you remove any edge in the cycle, then you create a potentially different tree.

We will be using these two facts in the algorithms.

## Spanning trees for a graph \(G\).

A spanning tree for a connected, undirected graph \(G = (V,E)\), is a tree that contains all the nodes in \(G\).

For example, if we have G

```
  O---O
 /|\ /|\
O | O | O
 \|/ \|/
  O---O
```

Then we can have one such spanning tree


```
  O   O
 / \ / 
O   O   O
     \ /
  O---O
```

A spanning forest, is a set of trees \(T_1 = (V_1, E_1), T_2 = (V_2, E_2), ... T_k = (V_k, E_k)\) such that \(\{v_1, v_2, ..., v_k\}\) form a partition of \(V\), and \(\bigcup_i\ E_i \subseteq E\).

The trees are disjoint, thus when we take a union of two trees, they form a partition. It is fragments of a spanning tree.


One example of a spanning forest using the tree above
```
  O    O
 /|   / \
O |  O   O
  |     
  O  O
```

## Minimum spanning tree

Suppose each edge \(e\) of \(G\) has a weight \(W(e)\).

```
    4
  O---O
  |\2/|
1 | O | 3
  |/3\|
  O---O
    2
```

Then the weight of the spanning tree \(T\) of \(G\) is 
\(\Sigma_{e \in T} W(e)\)


A minimal spanning tree is a tree with min weight.

For example, 

``` 
    4
  O---O
1 |   | 3
  O   O
```

```
  O   O
1 |   | 3
  O---O
    2
```

```
  O  O
1 | /|3
  |/3| 
  O  O
```

```
  O  O
1 |\ |3
  |2\| 
  O  O
```

In this case, trees 2 and 4 have the minimal weight of 6.

### MST Problem

Given a weighted, undirected connected graph \(G\), find an MST of \(G\).

For a completely connected graph, \(G\) with \(n\) vertices, there are \(n^{n-2}\), so we can not simply bruteforce.

### MST Construction Theorem

\(G = (V, E)\) be connected weighted and undirected. Let \(T_1 = (V_1, E_1), T_2 = (V_2, E_2), ..., T_k = (V_k, E_k)\), be a spanning forest of \(G\). Suppose some MST \(T\) of \(G\) contains this forest.

Let \((u, v)\) be an edge of min weight among all edges such that \(\forall i. u \in V_i\) and \(v \in V - V_i\).

Then there is an MST \(T^*\) that contains all the edges in \(E_1 \cup E_2 \cup ... \cup E_k \cup \{u, v\}\).


Start with a forest that is part of some MST. How can we grow the forest that is also part of an MST. Hence we can start with an empty graph, and apply the theorem \(n-1\) times to get an MST.

