# 2018-05-10

> **Theorem** *Fundamental Principle of Counting*
> For an experiment with *m* **independent** stages, and *n_1 ... n_m* possible outcomes in stages *1 ... m*, then the total number of possible outcomes is 
>
> \[ 
 \prod^m_{i=1} n_i 
 \]


**Example** 

For a burger of choices 3 types of buns, 4 types protein, 6 types cheese, 4 types toppings, there are 3 * 4 * 6 * 4 = 288 choices of burger. Notice that we are not considering the order of items added to the burger. 

To acount for the order of selection, we must adapt for dependent stages. We are selecting sequentially all 4 objects "without replacement". For an arbitrary **single** choice, if we have 4 choices in the first stage, then 3 choices in the second stage, etc.. Adjusting the number of outcomes to reflect the stages.
Then the number of ways to order \(n\) **distinct** items, or a **permutation of order \(n\)** is \(n!\), where \(n \in \mathbb{Z}^{+}\). 

For a choice of 2 proteins of 4 choices, consider how many burgers can be made if the same protein can be selected more than once, or if you can select each protein at most once. 

If we can select each protein at most once, there are \({4 \choose 2} = 6\). Adding these option to 4 choices of stacking protein twice, there are 10 possible burgers. 

Notice that because we are not caring about the order of the proteins, if we simply take the choices with consideration to order, there are \(4 \times 3\) possible choices: after choosing one protein there are 3 remaining choices. Dividing by two will remove the double counting. This is equivalent to  \({4 \choose 2} = 6\).

The choice for duplicate meats is **not** \(\frac{4^2}{2!}\). Dividing the choices by two only works if the two proteins are different. If we simply divide by two here we are undercounting the choices for a single meat. 

In this case, for choices **B**eef, **T**ofu, **Tu**rkey, **V**eggie, we can enumerate the sample space

\[\Omega = \{BB, BT, BV, BTu, TuTu, ...\}\]

In general, to select a subset of \(k\) items from a pool of \(n\) distinct items, or equivalently to order \(k\) items from a group of \(n\) items is 

\[_nP_k = \frac{n!}{(n-k)!}\]

We can think of this as taking the order of all \(n\) objects, then removing the orderings that have the same first \(k\) stages, or *remaining \(n-k\) items*, to get distinct orderings of the first \(k\) items.

## **Example**
Pick 7 numbers from 1 to 49 for a lottery. 

If each number can not be selected more than once, there are \(49 P_7 = \frac{49!}{(49-7)!}\) possible outcomes. Considering the outcomes where a number can be selected more than once there \(49^7\) choices. 

There are \(7!\) ways to select \(\{1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7\}\) in any order. The probability of selecting each of \(\{1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7\}\) from 49 numbers is hence \(\frac{7!}{49^7}\)

## **Example 2**

A new student union made of **5** representatives with different roles is to be established in the next school year. There are **30** candidates, if each candidate is equally qualified, and likely to be elected, how many different groups of representatives can be created.

## **Example 3**

Consider a box with **9** pairs of shoes. Without looking, you select two shoes at random. How many ways can you select two **mismatched** shoes?

**By Direct Counting**
We don't care about order, we only care which shoes were selected. There are 18 objects, and 16 objects after the first choice of shoe to ensure mismatched shoes. Considering order, we have \(18 \times 16\) choices of shoes, and dividing by two will remove double counting = 144. 

**Indirect Counting**
Alternatively, we have 9 outcomes that we do not care about (matched shoes). We have \({18 \choose 2} = 153\) possible choices of shoes, and subtracting the unwanted outcomes we have \(153-9 = 144\) possible outcomes of mismatched shoes.

## **Example 4**
At a party there are 12 guests. How many ways can two guests can have the same birthday, assuming no leap year births?

For a party of 12 people, there are \(n(\Omega) = 365^{12}\) possible ways that birthdays can assigned. However, if everyone has different birthdays, then there are \(n(\text{all different birthdays}) = _{365}P_{12}\) possible ways that birthdays can be assigned. Hence the probability that at least two share the same birthday is 

\[\frac{_{365}P_{12}}{365^{12}} \approx 16.7\%\]

## **Example 5**
A box contains 4 red balls, 1 yellow ball, 3 green balls, and 2 blue balls. How many different ways can you arrange all 10 of these balls?

Naively, consider if all balls were distinct. Then there are \(10!\) ways to arrange the balls. But since balls of the same color are indistinct, we have to disregard identical arrnagements.

There are \(4!\) possible ways to arrange the red balls if they were distinct, \(3!\) for green, etc. Hence, there are 

\[\frac{10!}{4!3!2!}\]

possible distinct ways to arrange the balls. This is a multinomial coefficient of \(10 \choose 4, 3, 2\).

## **Example 6**
9 books are being arranged on a shelf. There are 2 non-fiction, 5 sci-fi, and 2 reference titles.

Similar to **example 5**, we have \(9 \choose 5, 2, 2\) unique orderings of book genre, or \(\frac{9!}{5!2!2!}\).

If the sci-fi books are all grouped together, then there are 5 possible locations for the first sci-fi book to be in, and 5! ways for the sci-fi books to be arranged.Then, for the remaining 4 books, there are \(4!\) ways to arrange the books. Hence there are \(5! \times 5 \times 4! = 5! \times 5!\) possible ways.

If we order the genres first, then order the books, we can find how many different ways for the books to be arranged. There are 3 genres, so \(3!\) ways of arranging such items, Hence there are \(3! \times 2! \times 2! \times 5!\) ways to group together books.

## **Example 7**
From a deck of 52 cards, there are \(52 \choose 5\) possible hands of 5 cards. There are 12 face cards, and 40 numeric cards. There are \(12 \choose 4\) ways to select 4 face cards, and 36 numeric cards that can pair with those cards. Hence there are \(36 \times {12 \choose 4}\) possible ways to combine 4 face cards with a numeric card, without order.

With order, there are \(12 \choose 4\) possible combinations of the 4 face cards, and 36 possible numeric cards. Of these 5 cards, there are \(5!\) ways to arrange these cards. Hence there are \({12 \choose 4} \times 36 \times 5!\) choices. Alternatively for \(_{12}P_{4}\) permutations of face cards, and 36 possible numeric cards, there are 5 locations for the numeric cards to be in. Hence, there are equivalently \(_{12}P_{4} \times 36 \times 5\) possible hands.

## Combinations.

Notice that we have defined the number of posssible **permutations**
\[_nP_k = \frac{n!}{(n-k)!}\]

When we do not care about order, we divide away the choices without replacement. Then

\[{n \choose k} = _nC_k = \frac{_nP_k}{k!}\]



