# 2018-05-17

## Example

Given two events \(C\) and \(D\), \(P(C) = 0.4\), and \(P(D) = 0.3\), and \(P(C \cup D) = 0.5\)

Then 

  * \(P( C \cap D)\) = \(P(C) + P(D) - P(C \cup D) =  0.7 - 0.5 = 0.2\) by the inclusion/exclusion principle.
  * \(P(C' \cap D') = P((C \cup D)^c) = 0.5\) by de Morgan's Laws.
  * \(P(C|D') = \frac{P(C \cap D')}{P(D')}\).
    * By the third axiom, we have \(P(C) = P(C \cap D) + P(C \cap D')\), and thus \(P(C \cap D') = P(C) - P(C \cap D) = 0.4 - 0.2\)
    * \(P(C|D') = \frac{0.2}{1 - 0.3}\).

## Independent Events
Two events \(A\) and \(B\) are **independent** if \(P(A|B) = P(A)\), and \(P(B|A) = P(B)\). and \(P(A \cup B) = P(A) \cdot P(B)\). We can check independency, as the inclusion exclusion principle should yield the same answer as multiplying the probabilities together. In the general case, if the probability of the union of \(n\) events is equal to the product of the probability of each event, then all \(n\) events are independent. If each event is independent of the other, then they are mutually independent. 

## Mutually Exclusive
Two events are mutually exclusive if \(A\) occurring excludes \(B\). This implies that the events are dependent.

## Example with independent events
If \(P(C_1) = 0.9\), \(P(C_2) = 0.95\), \(P(C_3) = 0.99\), where \(P(C_n)\) is the probability of the \(n^th\) independent component in a 3 component system malfunctioning, what is the probabillity \(B\) that the system will malfunction?

\(P(Blocked) = 1- P(Not Blocked)\).

what is \(1 - P((C_1 \cup C_2) \cap C_3)\)?
\[
P((C_1 \cup C_2) \cap C_3
= P(C_1 \cup C_2) \cdot P(C_3)
= (P(C_1) + P(C_2) - P(C_1 \cap C_2)) \cdot P(C_3)
= [P(C_1) + P(C_2) - P(C_1) P(C_2)] \cdot P(C_3)
\]

## Example 3
Consider the following tabulated data 

|   |Men (M)|Women (M')|Total|
|--|---------|-------------|-----|
|Colourblind (C)|0.04|0.002|0.042|
|Not Colourblind (C')|0.47|0.488|0.958|
|Total|0.51|0.49|1.00|

Does it appear that colourblindness is independent of sex?
We want to see if \(P(C'|M) \neq P(C')\)

\(P(C|M) = \frac{P(C \cap M)}{P(M)} = \frac{0.04}{0.51} = 7.84\%\)
\(P(C|F) = \frac{0.002}{0.49} = 0.41\%\)

The chance of colourblindness for females is almost negligible, and the only differing factor is the sex. It appears that males are more likely to be colourblind which suggests that biological sex has an effect on colourblindness, and thus is not independent of sex. 

## Law of Total Probability
Suppose we have a sample space consisting only of events \(A, B_1, B_2, ... B_k\), where each event \(B_i\) form a complete partition of the sample space. Each \(B_i\) is disjoint, and \(\bigcup^k_{i=1}B_i = \Omega\). Then \(P(A) = P(A \cap B_1) + P(A \cap B_2) + ... + P(A \cap B_k)\). 

Then from conditional probability, we have thath \(P(A \cap B_i) = P(A | B_i) P(B_i)\), we can do a replacement in the above formula.

Intuitively, this means that \(P(A)\) is combining all the probabilities of \(A\) given different conditions (each \(B_i)\), then scaling ech probaibility by how likely each condition occurs.


## Bayes' Rule

Since we have that \(P(B_i | A) = \frac{P(A\cap B_i)}{P(A)}\), with conditional probability, we can expand it such that 

\[
P(B_i | A) = \frac{P(A|B_i) \cdot P(B_i)}{\sum^k_{j=1}P(A|B_j) \cdot P(B_j)}
\]

## Bayes' Rule example
An HIV test will correctly test positive 95% of the time, and incorrectly test positive (false positive) 1% of the time, Suppose that 99.99% of the population is HIV-free. Then, what is the probability that a patient who tested positive is actually HIV positive.

Some definitions
**Sensitivity** is defined as \(P(\text{test positive} | \text{actually ill})\), or how well it can detect illness 
**Specificity** is definied as \(P(\text{test negative} | \text{healthy})\).

In this problem, we have that \(P(+|\text{ill}) = 0.95\), and \(P(+|\text{not ill}) = 0.01\), and \(P(\text{not ill}) = 0.9999\) 

Notice that there are 2 ways to test positive -> being healthy and testing positive with \(P = 0.9999 * 0.01\), or unhealthy and positive with \(P = 0.0001 * 0.95\)

Then \(\frac{P(HIV \cap +)}{P(+)} = 8.68\%\) is the probability that you test positive, and actually have HIV.

## Random variable
For a sample space \(\Omega\), a **random variable** is a function \(X: \Omega \to \mathbb{R}\) or \(\forall \omega \in \Omega, \exists x \in \mathbb{R}, X(\omega) = x\). 

For example, for tossing a coin, we have \(\Omega = \{H, T\}\), and \(X\) the RV denoting the outcome of a toss, such that \(X(H) = 1\), and \(X(T) = 0\). Then \(P(X = x) = \{ x = 0: 0.5, x = 1: 0.5\}\).

An RV \(X\) is discrete if its range is a subset of \(\mathbb{N}\). An RV \(X\) is **continuous** if its domain is an interval of \(\mathbb{R}\)

A **probability mass function** of a discrete RV is a function that assigns a probability to each value \(x \in X\) such that 
1. \(0 \leq P(X = x) \leq 1\)
2. \(\sum_{x \in X} P(X=x) =1\)

A **culmulative mass function** is the culmulative 