# 2018-06-12

## Chi-squared distribution

The **chi-squared** distribution is a gamma distribution with \(\alpha = \frac{k}{2}\), and \(\beta = 2\) with parameter \(k\).

* Joint CDF/PDF
* Marginal CDF/PDF
* Conditional CDF/PDF


## Marginal Distribution for Discrete RV

### Example

| | \(B\)|Survived|Perished|Total|
|--|-----|---------|---------|-----|
| |No belt| 0.38|0.17| 0.55|
| |Adult belt used|0.14|0.02| 0.16|
| |Carseat belt used|0.24|0.05|0.29|
|**Total**| |0.76|0.24| 1|

Find the probability distribution of seat belt usage 

|\(S\)|Survived|Perished|
|-|-|-|-|
|\(P(S = s)\)|0.76|0.24|

|\(B\)|No belt|Adult|Car seat|
|-|-|-|-|
|\(P(B = b)\)|0.55|0.16|0.29|

Notice that the survived percentage is the sum of the column.
**Marginal probability** is when, given a table of two random variables, we remove the effect of one variable and sum the probabilities of one column.

> **Joint probability mass function** is the PMF of two random variables \(X\) and \(Y\).
> \(f(x, y) = P(X=x, Y=y) = P(X = x \land Y = y)\)
> *An "AND" probablity"

> **Joint culmulative mass function** is the CDF of two random variables \(X\) and \(Y\).
> \(F(a, b) = P(X\leq a, Y \leq b) = \sum_{x = -\infty}^a \sum_{y = -\infty}^b f(x, y)\)

> **Marginal distribution function** of two random variables \(X, Y\) are defined as 
> \(f_X(x) = P(X = x) = \sum_{y \in Y} f(x, y)\)
> \(f_Y(y) = P(Y = y) = \sum_{x \in X} f(x, y)\)
> for discrete, and
> \(f_X(x) = \int_{-\infty}^{\infty} f(x, y) dy\)
> \(f_Y(y) = \int_{-\infty}^{\infty} f(x, y) dx\)
> The marginal probability gives the distribution of one of two joint probabilities.
> \(X, Y\) are independent if \(\forall x \in X, \forall y \in Y, f(x, y) = f_Y(y) \cdot f_X(x)\)

> **Conditional distribution function of \(X\)**
> Given \(Y = y\), then 
> \(f_{X|Y}(x|y) = \frac{P(X = x, Y=y)}{P(Y=y)} = \frac{f(x, y)}{f_Y(y)}\)
> Remember that \(y\) is fixed and thus can be treated as a constant.

## Joint PDF
For joint PDF, we need to integrate over all possible events &mdash; *double integration*. the most challenging step is finding the correct limits of integration.

1. Sketch out the support of the PDF (domain). Not all joint PDFs are defined over an infinitely larg einterval
2. Identify and fill the area of the domain corresponding to the probability you are trying to find.
3. Keep in mind you integrate one variable at a time.

### Example
Given the following PDF

\[
f(x, y) = \begin{cases}3x &, 0 \leq y \leq x \leq 1 \\ 0 \end{cases}
\]

> Find \(F(\frac{1}{2}, \frac{1}{3})\)

\(P(X \leq \frac{1}{2}, Y \leq {1}{3})\)

We can set boundaries starting from \(x\) or \(y\). In this case, it is easier to integrate with respect to \(y\) first. We integrate from wherever y is to x.

\[
\int_{y=0}^{y=\frac{1}{3}} \int_{x = y}^{x = \frac{1}{2}} 3x \text{ d}x \text{ d}y
= \int_0^{\frac{1}{3}} \frac{3}{2}x^2 |^\frac{1}{2}_{x = y} dy
= \int_0^{\frac{1}{3}} \frac{3}{8} -\frac{3}{2}y^2 dy
= \frac{3}{8}y = \frac{1}{2}y^3|^\frac{1}{3}_{y=0}
= \frac{1}{8} - \frac{1}{54}
\]
 
 Integrate the inner integral first, with \(y\) as a constant in this case. Then do the outer integral.
 
 When we graph the support, take it as a cross section above the x axis. Drawing the line represents the plane of integration axis \(z\), and think of \(x\) as coming directly towards you.
> Find \(P(Y \leq \frac{X}{2})\)

If \(Y\) is a proportion of gasoline capacity sold during the week, and \(X\) the capacity stocked, then this probability represents when they sell less than hal the stock.

1. Sketch \(y = \frac{x}{2}\)
Then

\[
\int_{x=0}^{x=1} \int_{y = 0}^{y = \frac{x}{2}} 3x \text{ d}y \text{ d}x
\]

> Let \(X_1, X_2\) have joint PDF \(f(x_1, x_2) = e^{-x_1 + x_2}\) for positive values of \(x_1, x_2\), and 0 otherwise.

Notice that this can be expressed as two independent variables with \(Exp(1)\). Hence we can simply multiply the two probabilities together.

## Marginal and Conditional Distribution

### Example

Take the PDF of RVs \(Y_1, Y_2\)

\[
f(y_1, y_2) = \begin{cases}1, & 0 \leq y_1 \leq 1, 0 \leq y_2 \leq 1 \\ 0 \end{cases}
\]

Notice that the supports are not dependent on each other, and that they are indicative of a uniform distribution between 0 and 1.

### Example

Take the PDF of RVs \(X, Y\)

\[
f(x, y) = \begin{cases}3x, & 0 \leq y \leq x \leq 1 \\ 0 \end{cases}
\]

> Find the marginal distributions for \(Y\) and \(X\).

\(f_Y(y) = \int_y^1 3x dx, 0 \leq y \leq 1\)

\(f_X(x) = \int_0^x 3t dy = 3ty|_0^x = 3x^2, 0 \leq x \leq 1\)

> Are \(X\) and \(Y\) dependent?

Notice that \(f_Y(y) \cdot f_X(x) \neq 3x\). Therefore the two RVs are dependent.
