# 2018-05-19

Need to know the following integrals

\[\int e^x\]
\[\int a^x\]
\[\int \text{Any Polynomial}\]

## Examples of continous RV
A continous random vaariable is an RV that can take on values on an interval of real numbers.
* How much time it takes to complete midterm
* Weight of a randomly selected individual

## Probability density function
The probability density function of a continous random variable \(X\) is a function \(f(x)\) that has the following properties.
1. \(f(x) \geq 0, \forall x \in X\)
2. \(\int_{-\infty}^{\infty} f(x)dx = 1\)
3. \(P(a \leq X \leq b) = \int_{a}^{b} f(x)dx\)

Note that \(f(x) \neq P(X=x)\) for continous RV \(X\). The area under the PDF corresponds to the probability over the interval. In fact, for an exact \(x\), the probability \(P(X = x) = 0\). One way to interpret this is that since there are infinitely many possible outcomes, a single probability out of infinite probabilities is 0.

Continuos probability is represented by a probability **density** function, rather than a probability **mass** function. The function represents how close together, or how **dense** possible outcomes are. To find the probability "mass" of a continous probability we must find the area, or integrate over an interval. 

## PDF Examples
1. Verify that \(f(y) = 3(y - 1)^2, 0 \leq y \leq 1\) is a valid probability function.
To do so, we must confirm that the total area under the "support", or the domain is 1, and the function is positive on the support.

Ensure probabilities add up to one:

\[\int_{0}^{1} f(y)dy = (y-1)^3|_{y=0} = 1\]

Verify that the function is positive.

\[(y-1)^2 \geq 0, \forall 0 \leq y \leq 1\]

## Culmulative distribution function 

\[F(X) = P(X \leq x) = \int_{-\infty}^{x} f(u) du\]

Simply the sum of the probabilities from negative infinity to a point \(x\) or all the probabilities up to \(x\).
