# 2018-05-15

### Warmup examples

5 friends are sitting around a circular table. How many different seating arrangements are there?
  * Each seat is indistinguishable
  * If it were a straight line then there would be \(5!\) arrangements
  * However since it is a circle, we over count by 5 (5 possible positions to begin counting)
  * There are \(5! / 5 = 4!\) arrangements.

How many ways are there for form a group of 5 candidates, where 2 are female, from a group of 30 applicants of which 18 are female?
 * There are 18 females, 12 males
 * There are \(18 \choose 2\) options for females. There are \(12 \choose 3\) remaining options for male candidates.
 * Hence there are \({18 \choose 2} {12 \choose 3}\) possible ways.

### Full House

How many possible full house card combinations are there?

For a fixed suite \(S\), there are \(4 \choose 3\) possible combinations for a triple. For a set of 13 suites, there are \({4 \choose 3} \cdot 13\) possible choice of triple.
For a fixed suite \(R \neq S\) there are \(4 \choose 2\) possible combinations for a double. From a set of 12 remaining suites, there are \({4 \choose 2} \cdot 12\) possible choice of double.

Hence there are \({4 \choose 3} \cdot 13 \cdot {4 \choose 2} \cdot 12 = 3744\) possible full house combinations.  

#### Common Mistakes

##### Method 1
* 52 choice of first card
* 3 choice of 2nd card
* 2 choice of 3rd caard
* 48 choice of different rank
* 3 choice of last card
**Total** \(52 \times 3 \times 2 \times 48 \times 3 = 44928\).
This is an **undercount**, it only considers the order \(TTTDD\). We need to scale up to to consider other orders such as \(TDTDTD\). We need to scale up by 
\[\frac{5!}{2!3!}\]

> Count 5 positions, remove counting for doubles, and remove counting for triples
> 
##### Method 2
* \(13 \choose 2\) ways to select the two ranks in our hand
* \(4 \choose 3\) ways to select triple
* \(4 \choose 2\) ways to select two of a kind.
**Total** 1872.

This method does not account for the order of the two suites. Consider \(_{13}P_2\) to account for the order.

### Sticks and stones
To partition \(n\) numbers that sum to \(k\), imagine some sticks/stones

\(| \cdot \cdot | ...\)

For example, consider 3 numbers from 2 to 15 that sum to 15.

If the question was from 0 to 15, we have 

\[\frac{17!}{15!2!}\]

But for 2 to 15, we can guarantee that each element of the tuple has 2.
\(\cdot \cdot | \cdot \cdot | \cdot \cdot\), allowing 9 more "stones" in 3 groups. The number of ways for 3 numbers to add to 9 from 0-9 is \(\frac{9!}{9!2!}\), then adding the 2 stones \(\frac{(9+2)!}{9!2!} =  55\). 

Generally to sort \(n\) indistinct objects into \(k\) bins, we use the binomial coefficient

\[{n+k-1 \choose k} = \frac{(n+k-1)!}{n!(k-1)!}\]

### Conditional Probability Examples

For two events \(A\) and \(B\), the probability that \(A\) occurs given \(B\) is given by \(P(A|B) = \frac{P(A \cap B)}{P(B)}\).
