# 2017-10-03

**How did Buddhism spread in CJK?**

## What is Buddhism?

Siddhartha Gautama lived **500BCE**

**Four Noble Truths**
1. Life is sorrow
2. Sorrow is from craving
3. Stop craving to stop sorrow
4. Stop craving through discipline of 8fold path

**Eightfold Path**
1. Recognize suffering
2. Decide to stop it by
3. Right conduct
4. Right Speech
5. Right LIvelihood
6. Right Endeavor
7. Right Awareness
8. Right contemplation

You can stop **Samsara** *(Wheel of reincarnation)*, to reach **Nirvana** *(Extenguishing of desire)*

Buddhism evolved from a philosophy to a religion with Buddha as a deity
**3 Treasures**
1. Buddha
2. Dharma (teaching)
3. Sangha (community)

**Theravada** school came from India, and **Mahayana** (Greater Vehicle) school.
**Theravada** was seen as *selfish* an focusing on oneself, while **Mahayana** was aimed to bring salvation to all humanity.
Mahayana Buddhism was the form of buddhism that spread to East Asia.

Spread from India to Sri Lanka, then to China (1st Century), Korea (4th Century), then Japan (6th Century). 

Mahayana Buddhism had many cosmological canon, with a pantheon of boddhistavas and Buddhas. Women who were in unhappy marriages or not interested in marriage could become nuns. 

Came to China in the **Han** dynasty. Spread to the northern and southern dynasties, many emporers later practiced buddhism. Eventually, there was a purge in the 9th century.

Deracination: The political system was shattered after the Han dynasty, and "Non-Chinese" rulers took over. Chinese people were uprooted from their historical homeland and forced to migrate. Culture became *portable* with the people and books, rather than with the land. 

**CE 317** ruling class in Northern China moved to Southern China.

As culture became personal, religion became very popular especially in Southern China. 

## Buddhism in China
**Mahayana Buddhism**

**Doctrinal Schools**
  - Tiantai (Lotus School)
  - Huayan (Flower Garland)

**Practice Schools**
  - Pure Land (salvation through chanting mantras)
  - Meditation School (Chan or Zen, disposed of scripture, focused on inner meditation)
    - Enlightenment through gradual disciplined meditation
    - Sudden realization lead to enlightenment
    
These schools received royal patronage, led to thousands of temples.

### Tang Dynasty

- Codified a code of law
- Maintained northern military presence
- Continued with a exam system to recruit bureaucrats
- Alliances with the Turks

Empress Wu (r. 690-705) felt threatened by aristocrats, as she married into royalty. Revised exam curriculum to include more buddhist and daoist aspects, was a patron of buddhism.

Tang Dynasty led to explosion of Buddhist art and literature.

Dunhuang - a Chinese buddhist temple on the Silk Road, many sutras were translated and Buddhism was spread to travelers on the Silk Road.
  - Many documents found at Dunhuang
  - Documents were written in more vernacular Chinese

Diamond sutra was first printed book in history, using woodblock cuts. Book was given away for free to spread the word of Buddha.

Chang'an is modern day Xi'an, the Tang Dynasty capital. Became a city with 2 million people, largest city in the world. Destination of the Silk Road, many religions practiced, incl. eventually Islam.

Almost overthrown by a general of Turkish descent, beginning the decline of the Tang Dynasty.

## Journey to the West
Xuanzang also known as Tripitaka (3 Baskets) travelled to India and back to bring back sutras and translated them into Chinese. Also recorded a Classical Chinese recount of his journeys, which later became the basis of the Journey to the West novel. 

## Wang Wei (699-759)
Was a poet that converted to buddhism, wrote Stopping By the Temple of Incense Masked which used less flowery language and transparent meaning using a lot of imagery.

Buddhist characters - 色 and 空, meaning 'color' and 'emptiness'. 

## Han Yu

Thought Buddhism was a corrupting influence, away from Confucianism. Buddhism was a *foreign* religion, despite having been sinicised for centuries. He argued that before Buddhism, Chinese Kings sat on the throne for far longer than after. 

Han Yu was sentenced to death, commuted to exile, for writing a scathing criticism of the emporer and Buddhism.

Buddha did not understand Confucian ideas of filial piety, and the responsibility of the ruler.

While Han Yu was not successful in stamping out Buddhism in his lifetime, but Emporer Wuzong later started a crackdown on Buddhism and othrt religions due to their financial influence. When the next emporer ascended, a more tolerant view was restored.


## Korean Buddhism

Buddhism was "officially" introduced to Goryeo kingdom in **CE372** after a monk left from a Northern Chinese dynasty and brought Buddhist teachings and scriptures. It also arrived in Baekje through the Southern dynasty, probably by boat. 

* Project in Goryeo to inscribe the entire Buddhist canon into wood blocks

Baekje sent out monks to China to retrieve Buddhist material, and sent buddhism to Japan as well.

**Queen Sondok** used Buddhism as a way to control the kingdom of Silla.
**Monk Scholar Wonhyo** attempted to reconcile multiple school of Buddhism to spread across Korea and Japan.
  - Was about to go to China
  - Became enlightened along his journey and realised he could spread Buddhism in Korea
  - True buddhism under multipe doctrines

### Goryeo (918-1392)
* After Silla, Korea collapsed and split into 3 kingdoms once more.

**Wang Kon** managed to reunite Korea as **King T'aejo** as **Goryeo**, much of modern Korean culture from this period. Used **mandate of heaven** to justify his rebellion.

* Metal movable type was invented in Goryeo from existing clay movable type
* Inscription of Buddhist Tripitaka in 81,258 blocks
  * First one carved in 1084, but destroyed in a fire after mongol conquest
  * All the buddhist sutras and scriptures
  * Nationalist project to bring good karma to the country
  * Recarved in 1236-1251 under Mongol rule

Korean ruling class took ideas of Wu and Wen -> Military and culture. Civil official and the king were executed in 1170 and power was shifted to military class, right before the Mongol conquest.

## Buddhism in Japan
**Prince Shoutoku** attempted to bring Buddhism and Chinese-style central rule to Japan.
**Baekje** introduced Buddhism in Japan in **CE552**.

### Heian Period
Capital was moved from Nara to Kyoto (Heian). Buddhism (supported by military clans) threatened imperial rule, so moved to Heian (平安京). Military leaders eventually estalblished a capital in Kamakura, and left the imperial court with little influence. 

A Japanese empress was enthralled by a Buddhist monk named Dokyo (道鏡), and almost gave away the throne to the monk. The court convinced the empress to move the capital, and henceforth female rulers were decreased, and so was the direct influence of Buddism.

Heian-kyo was built as a model of Chang'an, and used to push away non-Japanese influence. The emporer was left as a symbolic figurehead, while the Fujiwara clan was the de-factor ruler, taking over from the Soga clan.

### Saicho
**Mahayana Buddhism** based on the **Lotus Sutra**, called **Tendai** Buddhism. Built a temple complex called **Enryakuji (延暦寺)**, rivaling **Todaiji**. Buddhism schools had standing armies to rival the imperial power.
### Kuukai
Brought **Shingon Buddhism**. Emphasized rites and mysticism. Wrote about daily life in the Tang Dynasty, and studied Sanskrit in China to translate sutras.

Inspired how Chinese used characters to represent Sanskrit sounds to develop kana.

**Dainichi** Buddha - Right body Right mind
**Murouji** - A secluded temple in Nara that accepted female nuns.

As Dainich was depicted with a golden halo, so was Shinto rulers eventually. Melded very well with Shinto.

### Pure Land Buddhism
Buddhist temples were being militarized, and extorting the Japanese court. Violence was seen as the "end times", or Mappo. Pure Land Buddhism prescribed that if you said a phrase for example Namu Amida Butsu （南無阿弥陀仏), would bring salvation. 
Amida Buddha would bring one to the Pure Land.

## Kamakura Era
Minamono Yoritomo (源頼朝) was the first Shogun, and started the Bakufu 幕府 (military government). Never claimed Imperial Power, but was defacto ruler of Japan in the Kamakura Era. Warrior class arises and adheres to Buddhism. 

### Nichiren (1222-1282)
Another mantra repeating sect would bring enlightenment. Nichiren wanted to wipe out false schools of Buddhism, and thought of himself as the "new Buddha", called himself "pillar of Japan". Was a very nationalist, crazy figure. 

### Zen Buddhism
Traditional Japanese culture arose from Zen Buddhism in the Kamakura period, such as Tea Ceremoney, Rock Gardens, Sumi-e, Shouin, etc.

臨済宗 (Rinzai) sect of buddhism taught that enlightenment could be arrrive suddenly after prolonged thought or realisation. Chinese cultural aspects were very popular in this era.


