# 2017-09-19

> import from written notes
> 


## Early Japanese Society
* Hunter-gatherers
* Pottery
* Subsisted on food from the sea
* Jomon -> Yayoi
* Yayoi period saw massive immigration from Korean peninsula, introduced rice farming and metalworking.
* Chinese written records near 1st century

## Creation Myths - Japan
* Attribute founding by 2 gods, Izanagi and Izanami. Created the Japanese Island and sun goddess Amaterasu.

## Historical Record
* Queen Himiko is the the first recorded major ruler of Japan ca 280, in Kyushu
* Shamanist
* Did not maintain direct contact with populace
* Early Shinto priestess
* Chinese referred to Japan as land of Wo　倭, referred to 和 or 大和 in Japan

## Yamato Japan 大和
* By Mid 6thC divided into territories called uji
* Imperial clan, called 山戸, later called 和
* Chinese recognized 和 as the primary clan
* Imperial line never had much direct power, more of a figurehead.
* Each _uji_ had an alliance with a certain _kami_, _yamato_ was affiliated with _amaterasu_.
* Quite a few female rulers


## Buddhism
* Paekche in Korea introduced Buddhism to Japan
* Represented higher civilization
* **Soga** clan, were proponents of militarism


## Prince Shoutoku
* Referred to Japan as the Land of the Rising Sun (日本)
* Issued **Seventeen Article Constitution**, ideas of Buddhism, Confucianism, into consolidating power to one ruler
  * Wasn't really accepted.
  * Did not question imperial legitimacy as long as the emporer did not attempt to rule

## Taika Reforms
* Building of capital at **Nara** based off the Tang capital Chang'an
* Never fill out out
* Written language was in Chinese
* Court was moved in 710
* Emporer Shomu built Buddhist temple Todaiji
* Manyoushu was collected during the **Nara** period.
* Attempted to imitate the Chinese political system, including bureaucracy.
* **Equal Field System**, land was divided equally among commoners, aristocracy allowed to keep their own lands.
* Manadatory military service, national history (日本書紀) 

## Sourced
* Chinese dynastic histories
* 古事記
* 日本書紀
* 万葉集 written in 万葉仮名

