# 2017-10-10 

Spoken Language Families

**Altaic**
  * Korean
  * Japanese
  * Mongolian
_*Some debate on this family_

**Sino-Tibetan**
  * Chinese languages
    * Mandarin
    * Cantonese
  * Tibetan

**Indo-European**
  * Russian
  * Indic languages
  * Romance languages
  * Germanic languages

Important to differentiate spoken language and written language. May not be 1-1 usage.

Many early languages were logographic - see hieroglyphs. 

Chinese radical system - semantic-phoenetic pairing.

Phoenetic scripts adapted from hierogylphs similar to kana/hanja orthography used Chinese to represent sounds. 

Qin dynasty unified writing system so meaning could be transmitted even if they spoke a different language.

Classical Chinese holds semantic value, even if the sound changes the meanings would still hold.

Korean and Japanese have many loanwords from Chinese. 

Bone, bronze or stone rubbings by rubbing ink on top of the stone to get an imprint.

Bamboo books, silk books, stone engravings were used as medium.

Oracle bone script was very nonstandard, written haphazardly. By bronze engravings, grid system began to be used. By Qin dynasty, characters were standardized as *lesser seal script* and was adapted for use in bamboo books and later paper and silk publications. 

Still, until the invention of printing, many stories were transmitted orally, writing was done only by scribes in positions of power. 

## Chinese literature
**Modular writing system**
Stroke -> Radical -> Character -> Text.

Radicals often provide semantic meaning, and another character is used to provide a hint to the character's pronunciation. 

**Early Zhou Kings**
* King Wen 文王
* King Wu 武王

**Six Classics** 
* Poems
  * heart/mind
* Rituals
  * behavior
* Documents
  * speeches
* Changes
  * cosmos
* Spring and Autumns (Zuo tradition)
  * events
* Music (was not written down, performed).


Classics of poetry.
* Coverts from 1500-600 BCE.
* Around 305 poems canon
* Transmitted orally with music, later written down.
* A way to "fix" stories with music, to be able to be transmitted.

Chinese characters were said to be from the world/nature itself, rather than other way around. 

Songs of Chu - compiled after Han dynasty based off warring states stories. 

Dong Zhongshu wrote of the king connecting 3 planes of existence, confucian virtues to political and cosmic emporer in *Luxuriant Gems of the Spring and Autumn Annals*. 

Sima Qian wrote the Historial Records, cemented idea of writing for political legitemacy.

After being uprooted from ancestral homeland, writing was used as a vessel of culture. 

Tao Qian wrote *Returning to Dwell in Garden and Fields* to use writing to withdraw from poltical circle and finding a new identity in nature. *Writing was a tool of the government but must be used to **reject** the government*. Thus, writing and politics could be divorced in this form of private writing.

**Tang Dynasty** Empress Wu attempted to make official exams more meritocratic. 
* Emphasized literary skill
* Entry to government service
* Allowed for some social mobility
* Could include foreign students

Only men were allowed to take the examinations. Tension between aristocrats and literati. 

Poetry flourished in the Tang Dynasty.

**Wang Wei** was a famous poet who wrote *Stopping By the Temple of Incense Massed*. Involved rising tones, tone balancing, fixed characters per line, rhymes. Buddhist poetry "retiring into nature"

**Du Fu** (712-770)
Wrote *The View in Spring*, a Confucian right involved himself in the politics and captured the zeitgeist of his time through his poetry.
The *View in Spring* is about the Turkish rebellion; Du Fu was behind enemy lines. 

**Yu Xuanji** (Mid 9thC) was originally a courtesan, and became a nun. While she was unable to take the court exams, after becoming nun was able to mingle upon the literati. Expressed regret at being unable to utilise her literacy in writing poetry as men were able to.

**Han Yu** (768-824) said to restore antiquity that speaks of the world that isn't simply ornamental 'poetic craft'. Some 'self-consciousness' in words that can be interpreted rather than words being simply a reflection of ones inner thoughts. Introduced a break into the connection between the poem, the world, and the poet by "crafting" and "interpreting" the poem.

## Korean Literature
Synthesizing Buddhism using Classical Chinese. **Seol Chong** (660-730) developed an early writing system called *idu* that used Chinese Characters for Korean particles.

Separating from learning Classical Chinese, to linking Korean to the writing system.

**King Sejong** (r. 1418-1450) hired a slave **Jang Yeong-sil** who invented rain guage, celestial globe etc. Sejong himself invented the Korean Script **Hangul** and produced a book *Proper Sounds to educate the people* (Hunminjeongeum) to educate people in the new system by comparing Hangul to Chinese.

Hangul had multiple **jamon** that combined into a syllable block that had an initial consonant, a vowel, and a final consonant, purely phoenetic.

Wanted the everyday peasant to be able to read and write.

Language can transcribe ones feelings. Korean Elite were wary of this new system as Chinese took much time to learn, and thus Hangul was very simple to learn. 

## Japanese literature

Early evidence of Chinese Characters in 5th century CE but most characters were imported in the Nara period.

Chinese characters were used in the *古事記*, *日本書紀* and *万葉集*. Used Chinese characters phonetically to represent Japanese sounds -> 万葉仮名.

Early text was written on wooden slips known as Mokkan (木簡). Early example of 万葉仮名.

Nara was initially dependent on pure Chinese Characters until the invention of かな syllabary.  カタカナ restricted mostly with Buddhist text. ひらがな influenced by "grass script" Chinese cursive.

Women used ひらがな as they were not allowed to write Chinese. 

Heian Period produced more "Japanese" style poetry such as 和歌. 紀貫之 compiled 古今集.

もののあわれ -> Ability to be moved, sensitivity
みやび -> Courtly refinement

Tale of Genji (源氏物語) written by 紫式部. Although Murasaki knew how to write in Chinese, she chose to write 源氏物語 purely in ひらがな as women were not supposed to know how to write in Chinese. 

清少納言 wrote the Pillow Book 枕草子, that was publicized accidentally, did not want her book to be published. 
