# 2017-09-26

**770BCE - 200CE**

Differences between Chinese idea of **empire** and other ideas in Korea and Japan?
What was new about empire as a form of state in China?
Differences to modern _imperialism_?
Why did empires not form in Japan and Korea?

* Qin managed to unify the warring states that broke up from the Zhou, but was quickly replaced by the Han dynasty

Eastern Zhou separated into 春秋 (Spring and Autumn 770-476BCE) and 戦国 (Warring States 475-221BCE) _replace with trad. char_, based on the Confucian classics.

By 4th century, there were many kings, not only Zhou.
Qin and Chu were considered outlying, barbaric regions from Zhou. It was said Qin were continuing human sacrifice, and Chu was considered to worship false gods.

Qin and Chu were the most militarily powerful kingdoms. Many new technologies and philosophies evolved from the constant warfare.

Zuo Tradition covers 722-468BCE, a "commentary" to Spring and Autumns. Compiled by blind Historian Zuo Qiuming. **Were not unbiased**. Biased towards Confucian school of thought. "Moral" -> _A good king will be rewarded, etc._.

## Schemes of the Warring States
* Used to convince Kings by referencing a parable in this compiplation
* Compiled by Su Qin
* Covered 490-221BCE
* Realpolitik

## Hundred Schools of Thoughts
Warring states period had lots of philosophers, came up with many _schools of thought_, major ones _Traditionalists_ by Confucius, then Mencius and Xunzi later called themselves _Confucians_. 

### Traditionalists
Confucius - 552-49
> I transmit; I do not create. 

Simply a body of knowledge spoken of and taught, not treated as a holy text.

* Low level aristocrat from state of Lu

#### Other Confucians
* Mencius (372-289BCE)
* Xunzi (312-230)

Mencius believed Human Nature was innately good, but education was required to maintain this innate goodness. Xunzi believed humans were innately selfish, but morality was taught through education.  

## Confucian Virtues
* Filial Piety
  * Respect for elders, ancestors, parents

* Humaneness 
  * Do not do unto others unto what you would not have them do unto you.
  * Basic Respect

* Ritual propriety
  * Everyone should know where they are in society and act according to that.
  * Understand how to act according to the label for your role
  * Hiearchical 
  * The great learning. If you govern the whole world, you must first govern your own state.
  * 君君臣臣父父子子

## Six Classics 六經
* Were not largely written, passed down orally
  * Poems
  * Rituals
    * How you conduct yourself
  * Documents
  * Music
  * Changes
    * Cosmos
    * Divination, I Ching
  * Spring and Autumns
    * Written text from the very beginning
* Based off Western Zhou ideals
* Based off "Patterns"
* Supposed to be internalized and discussed of
* Character is based off *silk threads*, culture is *woven* through these classics.

## Legalism
* Han Feizi
* Political philosophy
* Traditionalists and philosphy was a waste of time
* Virtue and philosophy is not needed, just set down clear laws with clear rewards and punishments.
* A good ruler should devote themselves to law instead of virtue.
* Ruler should treat people as animals, without need for morals.
* Did not have much use for scholars.
## Qin Dynasty
* Qin use Legalism as a doctrine for ruling their kingdom, allowed Qin to conquer all other Kingdoms.
* Qin moved from feudal system to imperial system.
* First Emperor built the mausoleum containing the terracotta army
* Put infrastructure for an empire. Unified multiple states into a single political entity.
* Destroyed Zhou feudal system ->  brought all land into jurisdiction of the empire.
* Called himself emperer, rather than King. The emperor was considered 'divine'
* Dropped hereditary ranks and estalblished a meritocracy.
* First Emperor died from poisoning, death was originally hid from the public.

## Han Dynasty 

Liu Bang and Xiang Yu were from Chu that contributed to the rebellion against the Qin, leading the Han Dynasty.

Xiang Yu wanted to return to the Zhou feudal system, but Liu Bang wanted to continue the empire model of government. After toppling the Qin, Xiang Yu and Liu Bang fought for control over the throne. Eventually torn into pieces by Liu Bang's army.

Liu Bang was the first commoner to start an empire. Unlike the Qin Empire, Liu Bang decided to restore the lost written texts by calling Scholars banned from the Qin Empire. 

Liu Bang estalblished Confucianism as a state doctrine. Opened up trade routes on to central Asia, Silk Road.

Liu Bang becomes Emporer Gao poshoumously. Government monopolies enriched government, but damaged the merchant class.

### Social Structure
```
Imperial Family -> Eunuchs
  |
Scholar Officials
  |
Landowners & Merchants
  |
Farmers
  |
Slaves, Convicts, Soldiers
```

Eunuchs were used as males were made to leave the Forbidden City at night. Lots of tension between Eunuchs and Scholar Officials.

## Dong Zhongshu

* Han Dynasty cutural justification
* Weaves Confucianism on a more Daoist, cosmic level
* _Luxuriant Gems of the Spring and Autumn Annals_
* Linked Heaven and Cosmos to Earth Politic.

## Sima Qian 
* Wrote the Shiji 
* Became a eunuch between a choice of suicide and castration, in order to finish his historial work.
* Shiji used as a basis for writing further historical records. 

Transition from feudal state to empires.
Wasn't obsessed with conquering and expansion, consolidating Chinese mainland.

Korea: System of kingship, but not one King declare themselves ruler across all kings.
Japan: Imperial legitimacy is unbroken from Amaterasu, but did not have much political power. 