# 2017-09-25 Response

Assignment: [Portal](https://portal.utoronto.ca/bbcswebdav/pid-6284524-dt-content-rid-39730491_2/courses/Fall-2017-EAS103H1-F-LEC0101/EAS103H%20Reading%20Response%20%231.pdf)

## Question 
Two potential functions of history -"Impart tradition, and to provide edifying moral examples as embodied in the classics.
Who defined these functions of history, and when?
Does the author agree that these are the primary functions of history? 
How does this information change the way we might read the following texts in the context of this course?


## Response

De Bary writes of the *History of the Former Han* as defining history to have dual roles: that which to preserve traditions for future generations; and the other to provide a basis of morality by viewing the deeds of societies past. The tome in question itself writes of two other Confucian classics; the *Classic of Documents* as providing a unbiased view of traditions society, and the *Spring and Autumn Annals* as judging such traditions through a moral lens. However, the author notes that the Chinese preferred to lean moreso on allowing the reader of such histories to glean their own interpretation by providing objective and unbiased accounts, rather than inundate the text with obvious moral intentions. Still yet, De Bary writes that readers of these histories were expected to realise the morals in the objective happenings themselves, and that history itself was viewed as the cycle of life realised by human events; that in the bare truth itself there lies a deeper meaning. In accordance with such views, De Bary writes plainly and without bias, allowing us the reader, to come to our own conclusions with the ancient societies he writes of. Intending for us to come up with our own conclusions, and lessons that we may learn through studying premdoern East Asian society. "History tends to repeat itself" is an old cliche, but it is a cliche that holds some truth; by looking deeply to the past we cana gain insights into our present and future. Keeping this in mind, further texts in this course should be approached not only with an open mind, but also with an eye towards our own society, and our own problems. Such as how ancient scholars were expected to interpret morality through their own history, so must we look towards their past to understand not only their time, but our own as well.