# 2017-10-31

* What accounts for variants of Confucianism?

* Confucianism state of Mu

* Confucius lived in the Zhou dynasty
* Wasn't just a single person, an advisor part of the hundred schools of thought.

* Bringing knowledge from the eastern Zhou to the Western Zhou
* Schools and writings were more notes taken during lectures rather than some form of scripture


* I transmit; I do not create.
* Confucian did not write any of the Confucian classics.
* Built up in layers - analects were written by original pupils, then later works were attributed to them
* Warfare leads to collapse of social order
* Ruler should act in a moral way

## Traditionalists
* Confucius 孔夫子
* Mencius 孟子
  * Innate goodness
* Xunzi 荀子
  * Human beings are inherently evil, need rules.

* Was not originally meant to be an 'ism'. Just some teachings Confucius wanted to share.
* Ritual was very important
* Filial Piety

Classics were not known as the 'Classics' until the Han dynasty. Merely known as bodies of knowledge

## Great Learning
Some teachings and thought on how a ruler and his subjects should act.

## Han Dynasty
Qin Emporer destroyed most of the written copies of the Confucian classics. However by the Han Dynasty, Liu Bang called back surviving scholars and revived the classics. 
* A check on bad behavior by the emporer, but oftentimes scholars would simply be killed or castrated by the emporer
* Ban Zhao completed the History of the Former Han Dynasty after her brother was executed. 
  * Wrote a book on proper Confucian behavior for women
  * What is womenly speech?
  * Womenly manner?
  * Womenly merit does not seek to outdo the man. 
* Essentially (how to marry well, etc. before being able to assert power)
* Dowager position
* Stone sarcophagus in non-chinese dynasty with confucian ideals
* Filial Grandson Yuan Gu
  * Parents attempt to euthanise Yuan Gu's grandparents with a wheelbarrow
  * Came back without grandpa
  * Yuan Gu brought back wheelbarrow for the parents.

## Song Dynasty
* Taizu ordered an encyclopedia after his coronation
  * Split the military and the civil 
* Many commentaries on the confucian classics
* Learning the confucian classics to pass the imperial exam
* Neo confucianism
* Song Grand Canal - Linked Yellow River Basin to Yangtze River delta. Solved many food distribution
* Increase population density
* Maritime trade routes and silk road across the world

* Su Shi
* Inherent principles in nature - neo-confucianism
* Shen Kuo (scientist) (1031-1095)

## Neo Confucianism
* Cheng Hao (1031-1085) and Cheng Yi (1033-1107). 
* Zhu Xi (1130-1200)
* No term in Chinese called neo-confucianism
* qi 気
* li 理
* New interprentation of confucianism
* Synthesized with buddhism and daoism
* Popular in Korea and Japan

## Wu Ji Diagram
* Before time there was the Void
* The first differentiation
* Absence and presence
* Total Absence, Total Presence, and Both
* Cosmological principles \(\rightarrow\) great learning.
## 4 Books
* Analects
* Mencius
* Great Learning
* Doctrine of the Mean

## Joseon Dynasty
* Kings being kept in line by Confucian officials
* Jeong Dojeon helped estalblished the Joseon dynasty using jushi form of Confucianism
  * Wrest control away from Buddhist family 
* Taejo of Joseon wanted to establish a counterbalance from Buddhist families
* Scholar Officials wrapped up with order of succession
* Change in management at the top after Goryeo. No huge upsets in society at once.
* Confucianism spread throughout Korea and brought about important changes
* Viewed Ming Dynasty as legitimate although it was not a Chinese dynasty
* Korea as an Equal Partner as 2 Confucian lands
* Jeong Dojeon was beat to death after suggesting the younger son be promoted 
* Taejong (1400-1418) believed Neo-Confucianism was more efficient and actively opposed Buddhism
* Tributary relationship with Ming China
* Confucian classics translated using Hangul

## Neo Confucianism and the Family
* Master Zhu (Zhu shi)
  * Family Rituals
  * Translated into Korean
  * Harmonise Korean family practice and confucian society
  * Conversion from a male or female lineage to a patrimonial system
  * Previously, women would stay in their households and children were raised in the woman's household. This was reversed, and now women must leave their household and raise in their husband's household.
  * Only men were allowed to practice ancestor worship and inherit property.
  * Women were very rapidly impoverished.
* Koreans continued to use Ming Dynasty dates

## Major Principles of Neo Confucianism
* Li - Principle, Fundamental principle of the world.
* Chi - Vital force that gives meaning to the Li

Li is fundamentally good and correct. Northern Song from 10th-12th century after the Han Dynasty. Society fundamentally influenced by Buddhism want to revive Confucianism. Fight against Buddhism but incorporate ideals from Buddhism. More demand for books, printing in Song. Print was a vehicle to spread Neo Confucianism. Printed books were sold in markets, so even lower social classes could read the classics and take part in the imperial exam. Koreans loved Zhu Shi (Yang Bang Literati)

## Womens Rights
Rights were much more liberal before Neo Confucianism, but shift to patriarchial society took away rights.