# 2017-10-24 

**935-1392**

**Song and Yuan Dynasties in China**
**Goryeo Korea**
**Kamakura Japan**

# King Wen
1152-1056
* More Shaman like Figure
* Wrote a treatise on the I Ching
* "Civil"
# King Wu
d. 1043 BCE
* Estalblished the Zhou by conquering the Shang
* "Martial"

# Separation of Civil and Military
* Violence is used to create a rule, but civil must be used to continue it.

* Legal code that people will voluntarily follow but backed with military force. 

* Tension between civil anad military officials.

* An Lushan tried to usurp political power from Chang'an.

## Northern Song Dynasty (960-1126)

* Song Emperor Taizu (r. 960-976)

* Came to power through a coup. 

Explicitly separated military and civil culture. Dismissed the military officials that helped him rise to power. Divided 文 and 武 explicitly. Before the Song there were ~80 Dynasties, then after, only 3. 

After the Song, China entered a period of ~1000 years of stability.

Decline of military power over time after this separation.

Highly prosperous area of 1000CE era. Approx 1/3 of world population.

Song used diplomacy rather than military power. Paid tributes to Liao Dynasty and Xixia Dynasty to prevent skirmishes.

Jurchen (Jin) dynasty began to attack and conquer the Liao and the northern Song. 

Song Huizong (r. 1100-1125) was captured and held hostage by the Jin.

Huizong was a very civil emperor. 

Song Dynasty moves down to the south to avoid the Jin.

## Song Dynasty Inventions
* Paper currency
* Printing press
* Gunpowder
  * Flamethrowers
  * Rockets
  * Grenades
* Precision compass (Vikings had compasses before)

Printed word as representation of imperial power can now be disseminated through paper. Power projected through civil channels. Bookships etc. spawned the rise of the literati

## Literari 文人 Scholar-officials
* Existed in Tang Dynasty
  * Came to power in the Song Dynasty after examination system revamp
* Examiner was now anonymous, and exams were rewritten by a proctor and numbered.
* Removed nepotistic and aristocrastic influence to make it more meritocratic.
* 95% of males were eligible to take the examination, but most people were illiterate and were not learned enough.
* Factions at court attempting to win the favour of the emporer and military.
* Gowns with tiny characters used to cheat.

## Mongols
Song Dynasty gradually eroded territory from it's founding. Mongols were very busy at conquering territory. Mongols unified their tribes and began to conquer Europe and India, reaching Russia and Hungary, and began to conquer Goryeo Korea and attempted to attack Japan.

* Originated from the Eurasian Steppes
* Mostly grazed horses
* Mongols practiced guerilla warfare through use of fast horses while Chinese had heavy infantary.

Mongols were the largest continous empire in history. 

* Refused to settle down and live alongside Chinese and assimilate Chinese culture as the Jurchens did.
* Estalblished the Yuan Dynasty

### Way of Life

* Traveled light and lived in collapsible tents that could be brought on horseback
* Chinese calvary horses were not as strong and were grainfed. Mongol horses grazed on grass.
* Meat based culture, butter, cheese, etc.
* Women helped to raise animals except horses and ran domestic life. Women also rode horses and were militarily trained.
* Mongol religion was originally shamanism but would adapt new religions
* Patrilineal clan based society
* Infighting was common between clans.
* If you didn't have enough food, invade another clan for food, brides and slaves.
* Climate change caused grasslands to dwindle
* Temujin - Genghis Khan united the various mongol tribes.
* Mongols would eat anything during their campaigns, including drinking horse blood.
* Mongols would switch from horse to horse
* Place fake people on the horses


### Genghis Khan
* Brilliant warrior
* Ruthless and cruel
* Captured an caged as a teenager by a rival tribe
* Managed to escape and built up a following
* Would massacre every male of a defeated clan to prevent revenge killings
* Great Khan
* Declared the Turkish Uighyur script to write down Mongolian
* Wrote down a record of laws and customs 
  * Legitimize power through writing
* Offerred a choice of absorbtion into the Mongol Federation or destruction of a city.
* Took Beijing in 1215 (Dagu - Great Capital)
* Thought China would be more useful for pasture land for horses, but advisors convinced to take it as tax revenue.

### Kublai Khan
* Took 70 years to conquer the entirety of China
* Founded the Yuan Dynasty
* Religiously varied
* Trade flourished during this rule
* Began to adopt Chinese administrative practices to administer the Chinese
* Abolished the examination system, but put Mongols on political posts.
* Literati had to turn their focus elsewhere than the court
  * Flourescence of vernacular literature
* Brothers and cousins ruled other parts of the Mongol Empire
* Built a navy using Chinese knowledge to cross Yangtze river
* There was a boy emporer on the throne, so the Song military lacked literature, allowing the Mongols to conquer the Southern Song Dynasty.
* 1279 the entire mainland not under control of the Chinese dynasty.
* Reduced social mobility and created a caste/ethnic status from top to bottom:
  * Mongols
  * Uighyurs
  * Former Jin Subjects
  * Southern Song Subjects
* Taxed and treated legally differently under Mongol rule.
* Could not read but could understand Chinese
* Known to wear Chinese-style clothing
* Attempted to revive trade after the conquering
### After the death of Kublai Khan
* Bubonic Plague
* Running China was very expensive and required a bureaucratic system
* Expensive
* Revived exam system but never came back in full force
### Goryeo 
* Founded by King Taejo founded the dynasty through the last Silla King.
* Pressure by the Jurchen Jin, and eventually the Mongols
* Local lords rather than bone ranks and central court
  * Regional aristocracies
* Chinese style civil examination to consolidate the civil aristocracy over the military 
* Attempted to fuse the civil and military class into a single class
* Although the Yuan eventually conquered Goryeo, it was an independent kingdom  and paid tributary to the Yuan. 
  * Empress Gi (r. 1340-1369) was sent to the Yuan Capital as a concubine and was able to ascend politically.
  * Effectively ran the Mongol court
  * Attempted to place her son on the throne.
* Mongols oversaw Korean court matters such as succession.
* Goryeo Kings were forced to intermarry with Mongols by having the ruling king's crown prince were to live and be married in the Yuan capital.
* King Gongmin (r. 1351-1374) staged a rebellion to usurp the Gi family and declared Goryo independent from Mongol rule.

## Kamakura Japan

### Samurai Class
* Rose in the Heian period.
* Heian rulers simply collected tax revenue and never visited. 
  * Taika Reforms created a standing army through conscription to enforce rule.
  * Chinese threat did not appear, so army was disbanded.
* Local leaders hired these former soldiers to defend their land as the court did not bother.
* Originally used mounted marksmanship
* Samurai - 侍 originally meant attendant but became known as armed guards
* Evolved from warrior-farmers to hereditary elite. 
* 武士道 - way of the bow and horse
* As the samurai grew in power, the Fujiwara clan began to lose power
  * Rule by retired emperors
    * The actual emperor would be a figurehead, but the emperors father would actually rule
* Tension between Heian court and Samurai
* Taira and Minamoto families could not live in the Heian court.
  * Samurai began to associate with either clan.
  * Genpei War (1180-1185) Taira vs Minamoto clan told in 平家物語
  * Taira defeated Minamoto and usurped the Fujiwara influence in the Heian court
  * Song Dynasty culture became a status symbol
  * Minamoto no Yoritomo (1147-1199) ousted the Taira from the Heian capital and a Minamoto prince was placed in the throne. 
  * Estalblished the Bakufu in the Kanto plains in Kamakura, while Heian civil rule remained but as a figurehead rule
* Mongols invaded Japan during the Kamakura rule
  * Neither was successful
  * First time was a *divine wind* 神風
  * A wall was built the second time.zx