# Narratological terms

* **first person narrative** is when the narrator refers to themselves as 'I'
  * 'I' may or may not appear as the narrator

* **third person narrative** has a narrator that does not appear in the text.
  * normally used in account that purport to be "truthful, universal, scientific, or academic".
  * ambiguate subjectivity, sounds as if it is academic truth
    * is this really the case?
  * questioned this terminology
  
* **narrating instance** is the act of recounting a series of situations and events and by extension the spacial-temporal context of that act.
  * how the telling of the story is happening

* **voice** is the set of signs characterizing the narrator or narrating instance as well as governing the separation between the narration and the narrated

* **author** is who wrote the narrative
  * usually historical (has life outside the text)
  * narratives not written in a vacuum
  * know other things about the author, other than the written text
  * in **classical narratology**, the background of the author **is not considered**, only considering what is written in the text.
    * reading the narrative, *as if it was written in a vacuum*
    * study of only what is deducible from the text 
  
* **implied author** is someone who is inside the text, but invisible.
  * this person is responsible for the way the text is written
  * ubiquitous whether or not this person is visible
  * responsible for everything inside the text
  * many people have contested the validity of this term

* **narrator** is someone who tells the story.
  * **narrator is not the author**
  * narrator can be fictional
  * **author** is outside the text, **narrator** is inside the text
  * the narrator has only one thing to do &mdash; tell the story
  * not exactly a person, but a role

* **protagonist** is whom the story is about
  * may not be the same person as the narrator
  * hero/heroine
  * if referred to as he/she or by name, then the protagonist is not the narrator
    * otherwise, narrator would be 'I'
  * even when the narrator appears as 'I', may or may not be the case where the protagonist is the narrator
    * the narrator may be telling a story about someone else
      * ex. protagonist's friend is telling the story of the protagonist
  * in autobiographies, the role of narrator is being played by the protagonist

## Temporality

**story time** (time told), and **discourse time** (time spent telling)

* **story time** is the time of the story
  * timespan covered by the situations and events represented
  * from the birth of the protagonist, to the success of the protagonist
  * however many narratives are not chronological
  
* **discourse time** is the time in which the story is told
  * order is often disturbed during discourse

* **perspective** is the way things are seen in a narrative
  * may be many perspectives in a narrative
  * if only one, then it is called *monologic*
  * many people may narrate a narrative
  * story looked at from different temporal starting points
  * distance
    * a person looking from far away, or close up to the events in the story
  * put the story in context, why a particular part of the story is told a particular way
  * effects of a particular perspective chosen to tell a particular part of the story

## What does the *narrator-'I'* mean?
  * such a person can function as two roles
    * narrator whom tells the story
       * "*I* have seen this"
       * "According to *my* observations"
       * "*I* have been told"
    * subject of action
      * "*I'm* going to rescue the princess" 
      * "*I'm* going to defeat the villain


# The Dancing Girl 舞姫

* Ota is the narrator and the protagonist
* May have been based on Ogai's experiences, but the author is not the narrator
* The "dancing girl" refers to Elise, the narrated
* Ota is a contradictory character; says he is a different person but returns to his predetermined role by the end of the story
* Narrator tells the story of the past most of the time.
  
* **narrative present** is the moment where the narrative is presented

### Specification of narrative present

> ...group of card players who *usually* gather here...

In this example, the gathering of card players have gathered many times in story time, but is only mentioned once in discourse time.

> ...as there is no one here *this evening*, and *it will be some while before* the cabin boy comes to turn off the light, I think *I will* try to record the outline of **my story** *here*

This quote specifies a time limit in discourse time for the telling of the story. It also specifies a time and place: in his cabin, in the evening before the cabin boy turns off the light.

> One of my fellow countrymen &mdash;*I will not give his name*, ...

This quote is a reference to the act of narrating the story: shows his decision as narrator to not give the name of his countryman, bringing us back to narrative present.

> *I cannot bear to repeat here* ... *Tears prevent my pen from writing more*

Direct reference to the writing of the story as it happens, recalling his memories when deciding to go back to Japan, and of the passing of his mother. *Travelling across the temporal distance between past and present*

> *There is no need to describe it in detail here*, but ...


**Classical Japanese Past Tense**

* き implies a neutral past

* けり implies emotive past, some feeling about the past. Lamenting what has happened, negative or positive.
  * the narrator had some emotional investment in the event that had happened

Ogai uses both き and けり in effective use

> With my friend Aizawa Kenkichi, *with whom I am now travelling home*, came to my aid. He was private secretary to Count Amakata in Tokyo, and he saw the report of my dismissal in the Official Gazette

The italicized phrase is again a crossing of temporal distance from story to discourse time. What is odd is that the method by which Aizawa learned of the dismissal: Ota was in Berlin, and Aizawa in Tokyo when this happened. This raises the question, **why is Aizawa now with Ota?** (this happens before the later events in the story that reveals the events)

> ... yet to this very day there remains a part of me that curses him

While he was sick, everything was taken care of with regards to Elise by Aizawa. Ota loses agency in his decision to return to Japan. During his delirium, that part of the story was narrated very quickly; the way the relationship ended was very quickly taken care of.

This sentence was more emotive in the original text

> されど<ruby>我<rt>われ</rt></ruby> <ruby>脳裡<rt>のうり</rt></ruby>に一点の彼を憎むこゝろ今日までも残れりけり。

> **def'n** 脳裡 (名詞)
> 頭の中。心の中。

Here, the narrator very quickly becomes the protagonist by expressing his emotion. Notice the use of the recollective auxillary けり.

---
A common approach to this story is a struggle between romance and the nation-state, where Ota chooses the nation-state over his lover Elise.
 * Choice of public life over private life.

However, Yoda categorizes *Maihime* as a bildungsroman, overcoming oneself to success as an important person. In leaving Elise, Ota "grows up" and reaches adulthood and meets his potential.

Such action is commendable in the age of nationalism and capitalism. 

"Study hard, work hard, and you will succeed" is the ideological role of the bildungsroman, but *Maihime* shows the problem with such a narrative. Many contradictions may present in the discourse of the narrative.

The narrator is inserting the narrative present lamenting about what could have been, what other choice he could have made.

Many letters are merely cited in the interest of discourse time: the cabin boy could come in and turn off the light any minute. Ota also usually does not have time to write, and plays cards with his cabin mates. Thus he writes in a very compact, economical style.

Aizawa announces his arrival through the medium of post; at the time, the postal system was a symbol of modernity. This maintains but closes the distance between Aizawa and Ota. He quotes the short letter in its entirety.

> Ah! Only now do I realize the depth of my love for you. ... How I long for the day you return to Berlin. 

Ota is *too emotional* to quote his mother's letters, but quotes Elise's letters. The effect of quoting these letters lends to the shock of the reader when we discover the lack of commitment on part of Ota to Elise.

Elise wrote multiple times to Ota, and thus we see different voices and perspectives in the narrative. 
