# 2019-01-22
## Definitions

**frame narrative**
  * A narrative in which another narrative is embedded, the outside narrative

**intradiagetic**
  * Part of the diegesis presented in a primary narrative by an extra diegetic narrator

**diegesis** 
  * The fictional world where situations and events occur
  * World of the story

**primary narrative**
  * A narrative the narrating instance if which introduces one or more narrating instances, and it not itself introduced by a by any
  * The primary narrative must be a frame narrative, but a frame narrative may not be a primary narrative.
  * Primary narrative is not framed by any other narrative, the primary narrative frames all embedded narratives.

**narrating instance**
  * Act of recounting series of situations and events, by extension the spatiotemporal context, including the narrator and narrated.
  
**intradiagetic narrator**
  * The narrator who appears in a story told by someone else
  * Presumes there is a another narrative layer 
  * His or her story is presented by someone else 
  * Examples
    * Arabian nights
      * The narrator would tell the story of alladin, Ali Baba, etc, but the narrators story was explained by someone else,I.e. how she came to become the narrator.

**extradiegetic narrator**
  * A narrator that is outside the story, who does not appear in the story being told,
  * Always 3rd person narration

**homodiegetic narrator**
  * A narrator who is a character in the situation or events they recount 
  * The narrator appears in the story they recount, referring to themselves as "I".
  * Narrator "I" is also character "I"

**heterodiegetic narrator**
  * A narrator who is not a character in the situations and events they recount.
  * The narrator is telling someone else's story; they do not appear in the story at all that they are telling.

**order**
  * The set of relations between the order in which events are said to occur and the order in which they are recounted
  * When events are recounted in the order of their occurence, then chronological order is observed
  * There can be anachronies (retrospection and anticipation) 
  * flashforwards = prolepsis = anticiption
  * flashback = analepsis = retrospection

**analepsis**
  * going back to the past with respect to the present
  * evocation of one or more events that occurred before the present moment

**prolepsis**
  * going forward to the future with respect to the present
  * evocation of one or more events that occurred after the present moment

**duration**
  * set of phenomena pertaining to the relation between story and discourse time

**story time (erzahltezeit)**
  * time span covered by the situations

**discourse time (erzahlzeit)**
  * time taken to tell the story
  * very strong ties to the present
  * eg. in an academic paper, we often write in present tense, since that is the **narrative present** of the paper
  * however when we write of events that occurred in the past, we write in past tense.

## Kokoro

* The narrative is first person, and is also a character who does other things in the story, thus is a **homodiegetic narrator**.

* This story he tells is being told by himself, and is not outside the story. Thus, he is neither an **intradiegetic** nor **extradiegetic** narrator.

* **Shizu** becomes very important as part of sensei's life.
  * Very chatty person and talks to the protagonist and Sensei
  * 
* **Omizu** is also very present 
  
* The male characters are not named, but women are named.
  * Women are named and narrated, but do not present themselves
  * Their words are embedded within the male narrative
  
* Contrast between romantic individual life and institutional life a given?
  * Will romantic love give us freedom? Might it be imagined in the modern institution/society?
  * Thesis that romantic love is a modern invention
  * romance is institutional
  
* Conflict between Heterosexual romantic love vs. homosexual bonding a given?
  * Conflict between romantic love (cf. Elise and Toyotarou) and homosexual bonding (cd. Toyotarou and Aizawa)

* Mentor-disciple relationship
  * Homosociality
    * Could there be a male mentor and female disciple? 
      * dynamics would be very different
  * Genealogical 
    * Sensei is older, protagonist is younger
    * Constantly trying to learn something from Sensei
    * Sensei seems to elude the questions, and does not seem to give a straight answer.
    * Not willing to offer the protagonist anything until the end.
    * Compared to father-son relationship, constantly compares Sensei with his father.
      * Very obvious that Sensei is closer to the protagonist than the father.
  * No children
    * What is "divine punishment?"
    * if there were children, the relationship would be complicated
    * Other people do not seem to matter besides Sensei and the Protagonist.
  * Inheritance of wisdom/knowledge from the older to younger

* Sees *Shizu* as an extension of Sensei,
  * no intention of female partners

* Protagonist does have friends, eg. one calling him to Kamakura, or the position, but very rarely mentions them in the narrative
  * Mentioned, but in passing.

* Interiority (self-reflection, or introspection of the protagonists emotions)
  * Modern invention
  * In premodern times, this device was not used.
  * cf. Dancing Girl, Toyotarou's regret
    * We know that he is a modern subject
  * Often occurs in Kokoro, but we are not given answers in Parts I and II.
  * Sensei is a very introspective person, always thinking about himself
  * Seduction in how Sensei refuses to provide answers
* For the protagonist, Sensei is like the emperor to the Father

* Telegram
  * Brief to brief
  * Used when urgency is required typically
  * Letters are for retrospection
  * Protagonist telegrammed "I couldn't come, will explain later in a letter"
    * Felt he needed to respond very quickly
    * Temporality between telegrams and letters
    * Letters more suited for retrospection, telegrams more urgent and anticipatory
    * Protagonist was thinking about sending telegrams for some time
* Pronouns
  * First person is always stable (わたくし)
  * Second person
    * 先生
      * I-and-you relationship between the protagonist and Sensei
      * Used as the second person address
      * Lifted from the intimate face to face relationship, used as if it is his name
      * Shizu began to use 先生 as well, in the presence of the protagonist. Adopted use from the protagonist, although typically she would use あなた, to refer directly to her husband.
      * 先生 becomes the object of study, but the protagonist says early on that he has no intention of studying. 
      * Transition from 2nd-person address to 3rd-person marker.
    * 奥さん
  
## Dancing Girl

* Representation of Elise's voice
  * not represented through her own agency
  * viewed through the lens of the protagonist
  * if she tells the story it would be a different story
  * it's about Toyotarou's story, so why is the narrative titled "The Dancing Girl"?
  * Elise is objectified both as device and a prostitute
  * Elise's letter is quoted at length compared to other letters