# 2019-03-12
> I did not attend class on 2019-03-05.

* Monologue
  * A long discourse produced by one character (and not addressed to other characters).
* Dialogic narrative
  * Characterized by the interaction of several voices and consciousnesses
  * Multiple narrators with multiple different worldviews
  * Polyphonic narrative
  * The characters views and judgments are not the ultimate authority, only one contribution among several
  * Shouldn't be affected by our own likes and dislikes, but also our respect for a certain kind of person
* Implied reader
  * The one who is narrated to, as inscribed in text
  * Sometimes not so clearly defined
  * For example, we are not sure who the naratee is in parts 1 and 2 of kokoro, but part 3 is well defined
  * The person receiving the narrative implicitly forms how you phrase your narrative
    * What you withhold from the narratee
    * What language you choose
    * What you reveal to the narratee
    * How quickly you may move forward with the narrative
* **Narrator is not the real author!!**
  * The narrator is a *function* who does only one thing, located within the text, and tells the story.
  * However, the narrator can appear a a character in the story.
    * If so, then the narratee should be imagined as a diegetic character.
* If the narratee and narrator are different, the the narrative would be completely different. 
  * The content could be the same, but the tone, order, etc. could be completely different

* Unreliable narrator
  * A narrator whose values diverge from those of the implied author
    * Is it very difficult to find the unreliable narrator
    * How can we locate the implied author?
    * Implied author is a function, and is diegetic. It is **never the real author**

## The Key
* Published in a journal that did not specialize in literature
* When the first installment came out, it was quite scandalous
  * Discussed in the National Diet (maybe there is some liability in publishing this text)
    * very obscene, is this pornography, would it give a bad impression on readers
  * Did not lead to the banning of this text, but in the 50s and 60s, some publications have been targeted by the police for being obscene. 
* Husbands diary kept in an old fashioned style with Kanji and Katakana (male oriented discourse)
  * Was very common in legal discourse
  * Very formal way of writing down ideas
* Wife's diary kept in a modern, normative style
* Wife's diary would be much easier to read in modern japanese orthography.
* Historically speaking, the husband's orthogaphy was normative and instutitional . Peculiar in the sense that it appears to be more secretive.
* published in late 1950s during SCAP occupation
  * language was being standardized
  * written orthography was used as back in the heian period
* Given the husband's age, it was historically accurate, but would give the impression that the husband is a weirdo
* 