# 2019-03-19

**Scene**

When there is some sort of equivalence between a narrative segment and the narrated it represents.

* Narrator presents the location and the events: this narration takes tie as well.
* If the narration takes the implied reader through step by step, then it is *scene*.
  * For example, in *In the Bamboo Grove*, the narrative goes through every testimony word-by-word, and thus constitutes *scene*.
* Dialogue is an example of *scene* (when the speech of characters presented as is in direct discourse)

**Summary**
As opposed to scene, summary is when the discourse time is (taken to be) shorter than the story time.

* Simplifying the events, but only the important details of an event are provided
* If the narrator seems to be in a hurry and only gives us the gist of what happened.
  

**Analepsis** and **Prolepsis**
* Analepsis is flashback, and prolepsis is flash-forward.
* The most normative way to narrate an event is to go stage by stage (chronologically). While this is taking place, an invocation of an event that occurred before the event is *analepsis*. Note that although the narrative may be narrating events taking place in the past, it is not analepsis unless an event is evoked that interrupts the flow of time.
  
* If an event is evoked of an event that will occur in the future, then the event is *prolepsis*, or flash forward. The flow of time is interrupted, for example if the character predicts a future event while descripting a recently perfective event.

**Space**
The place or places within which the situations and events represented, and the narrating instance occur.

At the time, the narratologists were more involved in the structure.

Discourse space is a more elusive concept: narration may not be necessarily considered an act.

The narratives we have been reading so far have had narrators that are very self-conscious and frequently talk about the act of narration

Narratives in which the space of the narrating instance is systematically contrasted with that of the narrated.

## The Key

Often, frequency will be summarized: it is repeated just as it happens, whereas the husband summarizes the frequency.
