# 2019-01-29

> This lecture had its format changed to discuss concepts after the novel due to weather conditions, notes taken here reflect as such.

## Kokoro

There are some discrepancies between the original text by Soseki and McKinney's edition. The following were removed
* Parenthetical notes
  * When the narrator I is developing his thoughts about Sensei, when he qualifies his statements or footnotes in parenthesis, these parenthesis are removed in the English translation.
  * Except in once instance on a remark by Sensei's wife. 
  * Soseki might have intended the clash between spoken and written language by use of parenthetical notes
* Quotation marks
  * Part III is as long as Part I and Part II combined
  * In the original it is more clear
  * The entire letter is enclosed in a pair of quotation marks in Part III 「」
* Ellipses
  * Ellipses from the beginning of the letter are omitted in the English translations, omitted by the narrator
    * Implies that the letter is not presented in its entirety
    * Some introductions or greetings omitted perhaps? 
      * the narrator thought that it wasn't that important, and wanted to jump into the core of Sensei's letter
    * The author wanted to know that the narrator was editing Sensei's letter
    * Narrator exerting authority over the narration
    * Could there have been more editing to Sensei's letter? Omissions, etc.

* Why are chapters so short? In actuality, chapters are very short.
  * The novel was originally serialized in a newspaper, each chapter was an installment in the story
  * The author would have to create some sort of dynamic within each chapter, maintain suspense and intrigue within each chapter
  * Newspapers were relatively new as a form of publishing
    * Soseki was the first Japanese novelist to be contracted with a Newspaper (Asahi Shimbun 朝日新聞)
    * Newspaper was mentioned as a way of reporting the death of the emperor
  
* Telegrams
  * a new technology at the time
  * represented modernity
  * brevity and shortness of time

* Postal service
  * People wrote letters all the time 
  * Sensei wrote quite a few letters for someone who says "I'm not used to writing"
    * Wrote to K's family about his situation
  * Connect people across distances nationwide
  * Families are often separated, by rural families trying to send their sons to Tokyo. 
    * Before modern instant communications, so instead they write.
  * Letters have to be written, Postal Service is there to help facilitate the movement of but they still have to be written
  * Sensei's wife doesn't write any letters
    * Her family is in Tokyo with Sensei
    * No need to write letters in close proximity
  * K wrote letters only to his sisters
    * Suicide letter
    * He likes his sister, but he normally doesn't write
    * Changed his major, and did not correspond to the family
    * Separation of the countryside 
  * Communication may not necessarily be maintained, may be disrupted
    * Up to individuals to take advantage of these systems to actually communicate
  * Sensei's final letter travels across life and death
    * Intrinsically tied to the nature of letters and the fact that they take time
    * Temporal distance
    * Two or three days later (after not being able to meet protagonist)
      * Sensei has resolved to kill himself in two or three days
      * News about General Noki
  * Similarity between Sensei and Protagonist, but there is generational distance
    * Meiji and Taisho era
    * Story time and discourse time gap, 
      * graduation ceremony (was supposed to be important) covered in one or two paragraphs and simply put
        * but was supposed to be very important, but the protagonist doesn't even care about storing his diploma properly
        * **no mention of the Meiji emperor in attendance**, was only recalled by the father after reading it in the newspaper
        * Sensei and the father associated strongly with the Meiji era and emperor, but *the protagonist didn't even care*
    * Sensei likes to draw parallels between his own life and the protagonists
      * "you're young now, but gradually you will feel this way"
      * "you will love me now, but eventually you will find love"
    * We are not told what happens to the protagonist afterwards
      * not even knows how he mourned, besides jumping onto the train to Tokyo

* Sensei treated his wife ditantly
  * kept in the dark about K, and his troubles
  * protagonist was treated differently, and Sensei told him everything
  * in the Meiji era, the widow was supposed to remain faithful
  * there are implications towards intimacy between protagonist and Sensei's wife

  
* The railway was also very important and a symbol of modernity
  * measures are taken to show the distance separating family members

* Both the Postal Service and the Railways were controlled by the Nation-State

## Triangle of Desire

* Proposed by Girard
* Three important people in the plot
  * Subject
  * Object
  * Mediator/Rival

The subject wants to obtain the object, but the mediator tries to mediate the two, or oppose the subject. There may be some jealously. Mediator's desire for the object does not come naturally, but because the subject wants the object.

* Marcus applies this concept to Kokoro
* Uses first person narratives of Western origin to do his original analysis
* the mediator may downplay involvement or deed to assuage guilt
* when the mediator becomes the narrator, an interesting dynamic comes up
* Sensei could not resolve the issue with the competition for Ojousan, 
* Triangular desire between the narrator and the narratee, in terms of Sensei vs narrator I, Sensei only seems desperate to tell his story after his death
* Protagonist calls Sensei "Sensei", Sensei calls Okusan "Okusan"
* c.f. Sensei calling his wife "Shizu" in P.I-II, and "Ojousan" in the letter.
  * Shows change before and after the narration
  * Shizu 静 meaning silence
  * Why Sensei changed before and after K's suicide, but Sensei would never tell.

* Deceit
  * Sensei deceives K
* Guilt
  * Feels intense guilt for causing K's suicide
* Silence
  * Refuses to tell his wife the reason for his silence
* Loquacity
  * So much to tell, but waiting for the right person to tell
* Confidante
  * Selectively silent
  * Male homosociality, partnered with misogyny
    * Sensei requests for the protagonist to never share his secret with his wife
  
## Baroni

* Rereading as integral process of plot making
* Propp's style of sequence of events analysis was criticized as static
* Virtualities of possible worlds found by narrator, characters or the reader.
  * Instigate desire to read 
  * Hint at possibilities in plot development but only one is realized
  * Allows the reader to speculate and thing about "what if" scenarios
* Does knowing or not knowing the conclusion affect the reader?
* Sensei always speculates a lot
  * tries to read K's mind
  * thinks a lot of about what ifs
  * worries about who comes home first (to Ojousan)
    * anything could have happened
* Protagonist begs doctor to keep his father alive, but doctor was not available
  * If the doctor was alive, would that could have happened
  * Thrill, excitement, what is exactly going to happen
  * Desire to know
  * Takes in fact reader's participation, introducing aspect into narratology
  * Novel was originally published in a newspaper and contributes to the suspense on part of the reader

## Concepts

> *def'n* Embedded Narrative
> A narrative within a narrative

> *def'n* Frame Narrative
> A narrative in which another narrative is embedded

```
+------------+
|   Frame    |
| +--------+ |
| |Embedded| |
| +--------+ |
+------------+
```

> *def'n* Narratee
> The one who is narrated to, as inscribed in the text
> * A purely textual construct, must be differentiate from the real reader
> * May be represented as a character
> * Very often not represented as a character 
> *  **Someone who appears in the text**
> * May not be filled by someone specific, may be unfilled

> *def'n* Suspense
> An emotion or state of mind arising from a partial and anxious uncertainty about the progression or outcome of an action, especially one involving a positive character.
> * When a certain result is probable, but not knowing whether or when it will happen.
> * When an outcome is known, but how and when it will occur is not known
>   * **How I met your mother**

## Quiz Review
1. Letter sent to the narrator, as intended by the narrator of the embedded narrative, addressed to the recipient, who is the narrrator-I of part 1 and part 2. Received unexpectedly, but the recipient of which was not surprising due to the protagonists insistent begging.
   
2. Not given much, had already processed the letter, and knew about Sensei's past, but is not willing to say much of his own opinion. We don't really know the real consequences. Narratee in part 3 is referred to as you, and the person becomes the narratee because Sensei chose him to be
   
3. Suspense could be many things, but the narrator indicates here and there that he has already known of Sensei's fate. Almost a split personality. As a character-I he is experiencing suspense, but as a narrator-I he has already known what has happened. 

4. Sensei's narrative is explicitly made for publishing, but conflicting with that, his request to prevent his wife from reading it. Narrating after Sensei's death. Sometimes the temporal distance between character-I and narrator-I is emphasized. Character-I is still alive and writing the story, but we are not told about his circumstances.