# 2017-01-15.0

 * Express a property over a set
 * Allows you to have a domain of objects that you want to talk about.
 
 _**def. Predicate**_
 > A predicate is a function with the range \(\{0, 1\}\), in other words True or False.
 > *Examples*
 >  * Less than or equal to \(\leq\)
 >     * Domain \(\mathbb{Z} \times \mathbb{Z}\)
 >     * \(\leq : \{ a, b \in \mathbb{Z} | (a, b) \} \rightarrow \{ 0, 1 \}\).
 >   * Equality \(=\)
 >      * Domain  \(\mathbb{Z} \times \mathbb{Z}\)
 >      * \(=(a, b)\) is one if a equals b
 >    * Prime Predicate (unary)
 >      * Domain  \(\mathbb{N}\)
 >      * prime(7) = 1
 >      * prime(8) = 0
 
When you specify a predicate, you have to specify the domain. Everything in the domain gets mapped to either *True* or *False*. 

We introduce two quantifiers \(\exists\) and \(\forall\).

## Exists quantifier \(\exists\)
\(\exists\) lets us express that there is at least one element \(x\) in a set \(S\) in the domain of some predicate \(P\) for which  \(P(x)\) is true.

> *Examples*
> \(\exists x \in \mathbb{N} Prime(x)\)

For any predicate \(P\) with the domain \(S = \{x_i, x_{i+1}, ...\}\), \(\exists\) is equivalent to \(P(x_i) \lor P(x_{i+1}) \lor ...\)

## For-all quantifier \(\forall\)

\(\forall\) lets us express that no matter what element \(x\) is chosen from a set \(S\), some predicate \(P(x)\) is true for such an element. In other words, \(P(x)\) is true for all elements of a set \(S\) in the domain of \(P\).

> *Example*
> Let \(PowerOf2: \mathbb{N} \rightarrow \{0, 1\}\)
> \(PowerOf2(x) = 1\) if we can write \(x = 2^k\) for some \(k \in \mathbb{N}\).
> \(PowerOf2(8) = 1\)
> \(\lnot(PowerOf2(8)) = 0\).
> \(\exists x \in \mathbb{N}, PowerOf2(x)\) is True
> \(\lnot(\exists x \in \mathbb{N}, PowerOf2(x))\) is False.
> \(\forall x \in \mathbb{N}, \lnot PowerOf2(x)\) is False.

For any predicate \(P\) with the domain \(S = \{x_i, x_{i+1}, ...\}\), \(\forall\) is equivalent to \(P(x_i) \land P(x_{i+1}) \land ...\)

## DeMorgan Equivalence for Quantifiers

If we have \(\lnot(\exists x \in \mathbb{N} P(x)) = \lnot(P(0) \lor P(1) \lor ... = \lnot P(0) \land \lnot P(1) \land ... = \forall x \in \mathbb{N} \lnot P(x)\)

Similarly, \(\lnot(\forall x \in S, R(x)) \equiv \exists x \in S \lnot R(x)\).

## Nested Quantifiers
Lets express \(PowerOf2\) using only the exponentiation function.
\(\exists k \in \mathbb{N}, x = 2^k\).

We want to express **If \(x\) is a power of 2 then 2x is a power of 2**.

\(\forall x \in \mathbb{N}, PowerOf2(x) \Rightarrow PowerOfTwo(2x)\) which is equivalent to
\(\forall x \in \mathbb{N}, \exists k \in \mathbb{N}, x = 2^k \Rightarrow \exists k' \in \mathbb{N}, 2x = 2^{k'}\).

## Ordering of Quantifiers.
>**Example**
>\(\forall x \in \mathbb{Z}, \exists y \in \mathbb{Z} \text{ such that } x+y = 5\) is true, we can always pick a \(y\) such that \(x + y\) is 5.
>\(\exists y \in \mathbb{Z}, \forall x \in \mathbb{Z} \text{ such that } x+y = 5\) is false, we can pick some \(a \in \mathbb{Z}\) where there is at least one \(x\) where \(a + x \neq 5\).

>_Proof_
>Let \(y\) = \(a\). Presume for contradiction that \(\forall x \in \mathbb{Z}\), \(x + a = 5\).
>Then let \(c\) be such an \(x \in \mathbb{Z}\) such that \(a + c = 5\). Then \(a + c + 1 = 6\). But as \(c + 1 \in \mathbb{Z}\) we have by assumption \(a + c + 1 = 5\)! Thus by contradiction, the statement is false.
>\(\blacksquare\)

\(S_1\), \(S_2\) are groups of people. We define a predicate \(Loves : S_1 \times S_2\).

The notion that there is someone in \(S_2\) that loves only one person in \(S_2\) can not be expressed by 

\(\exists x \in S_1,, \exists y \in S_2, \forall z \in S_2 \neq y,  x \neq y \Rightarrow Loves(x, y)\).

Quantifiers can not qualify over a set that depends on another quanitifed variable. Hence we can say

\(\exists x \in S_1, \exists y \in S_2, \forall z \in S_2, Loves(x, y) \land y \neq z \Rightarrow \lnot Loves(x, y)\).

Which is equivalent to

\(\exists x \in S_1 \exists y \in S_2 \forall z \in S_2,  y \neq z \Rightarrow Loves(x, y)  \land \lnot Loves(x, z)\)

Notice that if \(y=z\), then the statement is vacuously true.

However, the following statement is not equivalent. 

\(\exists x \in S_1 \exists y \in S_2 \forall z \in S_2,  Loves(x, y) \Rightarrow y = z\)

If \(x\) does not love anyone in \(S_2\), then the statement is vacuously true, but we have specified that \(x\) loves only one persion in \(S_2\).

