---
tags:
  - runtime efficiency
---
# 2018-03-12

> *Example*
> Consider the following code
```python
 def twisty(n):
    x = n
    while x > 1:
      if x % 2 == 0:
        x = x / 2
      else:
        x = 2*x - 2
```
**Claim:** For any value of x greater than 2, after two iterations of the loop the
value of x decreases by at least one.

> **Case x even**: \(x \to \frac{x}{2}\)
> **Case x odd**: \(x \to x -1\)
> **Case x/2 even**: \(\frac{x}{2} \to \frac{x}{4}\)
> **Case x/2 odd**: \(\frac{x}{2} \to 2(\frac{x}{2} -2)\)
We have then that f(n) is in O(n), since the worst case runtime is bounded by \(2n\) (for an odd).

However consider an input \(2^n\). Then this algorithm will run in \(\log_2 (n)\), as it will divide \(x\) by two until x is equal to 1. Thus we have this algorithm in \(\Omega(\log n)\). 

> *Example*
> Consider
```python
def has_even(numbers -> List[Number]):
  for number in numbers:
    if number % 2 == 0:
      return True
    return False
```
Ex. `numbers: 3, 5, 6, 2, 6`
Let the runtime be the number of executions of the for loop.

**Definition:** \(WC_f(n) = \max\{\text{\# of steps when executing f(x) : x has length n}\}\)
**Definition:** \(BC_f(n) = \min\{\text{\# of steps when executing f(x) : x has length n}\}\)

Worst Case is that numbers are all odd, and the algorithm will run \(n\) times. Best Case is if the first number is even, and hence the runtime is \(1\). We hence have that `has_even` is bounded by \(O(n)\) and \(\Omega(1)\)

We want to show that 
\(WC_f(n) \in O(g_1(n)),  WC_f(n) \in \Omega(g_2(n)), BC_f(n) \in O(g_3(n)),BC_f(n) \in O(g_4n))\).

> We need to show a family of inputs that force \(WC_f\) to be bounded by some \(O(g_1(n))\)

\(WC_f(n) \in \Omega(g_2(n)) \Leftrightarrow \exists n_0, c_0, \forall n, \exists x. n\geq n_0 \land x \text{ of size } n \land Runtime_f(x) \geq c_0 g_2(n)\)

> We need to show a family of inputs that force \(WC_f\) to be bounded by some \(\Omega(g_2(n))\)

\(BC_f(n) \in O(g_3(n)) \Leftrightarrow \exists n_0, c_0, \forall n, x. n\geq n_0 \land x \text{ of size } n \land Runtime_f(x) \leq c_0 g_3(n)\)

\(BC_f(n) \in \Omega(g_4(n)) \Leftrightarrow \exists n_0, c_0, \forall n, x. n\geq n_0 \land x \text{ of size } n \Rightarrow Runtime_f(x) \geq c_0 g_4(n)\)

And so on and so forth.


**Example: Palindromes**
> A palindrome is a string tht reads the same forwards and backwards.

Consider
```python
def palindrome_prefix(s):
  n = len(s)
  for prefix in range(n, 0, -1): # goes from n down to 1
   # Check whether s[0:prefix] is a palindrome
    is_palindrome = True
    for i in range(prefix):
        if s[i] != s[prefix - 1 - i]: 
          is_palindrome = False
  # If a palindrome prefix is found, return the current length.
  if is_palindrome:
    return prefix_length
```

Say the input is `abccdadef`. The length of the input is the # of characters. We will first test if the entire string is a palindrome, then the first n-1 characters, n-2... etc

**Test Case:** Start  at n = 9, see if S[i] - S[9] is  palindrome, if yes, then we are done. Else n = n-1.

**Analysis:**

If the entire string is a palindrome, then we have a best case runtime of \(O(n)\). Otherwise, we have a runtime of \(n + n-1 + n-2 + n-3 + ... + n-n = \frac{n(n-1)}{2}\) Hence we have a worst case runtime of \(O(n^2)\). 

WTS that \(WC(n) = \Omega(n^2)\)

Lets take the input `abbbbbbbb...`. Then for all \(n \geq i\), `S[i]...S[1]` is not a palindrome. On this input the loop will execute  \(n\) times for every substring, hence we have that \(\Omega(n^2)\).

Take the input `aaaaaa....`. Then we want to show that \(BC(n) = \Theta(n)\).

