# 2018-03-26

*defn*: Graph
> A *graph* is a way to represent relationships between pairs or elements.
> Everything is either a *node*, or an *edge*, which connects to two or more nodes
>
> Formally, a *graph* is a tuple of sets \((V, E)\), where \(V\) is a set where each element is called a *vertex* or a *node*, and \(E\) is a set of pairs of distinct elements *edges*,  such that \(\forall v_1, v_2 \in V, v_1 \neq v_2\). There is at most one edge between two vertices. 
>

**Example**
> The number of edges when \(|V| = n\) is \(\leq \frac{n(n-1)}{2}\). 
> Order the vertices \(v_1, v_2, ..., v_n\).
> * The number of edges out of \(v_1\) (containing \(v_1\) is at most \(n-1\).
> * The number of edges containing \(v_2\) but not \(v_2\) is at most \(n-2\).
> ... and so forth.
> The total count is \(\sum ^{n-1}_{i=1} i =  \frac{n(n-1)}{2}\). Alternatively, each we get an edge by picking every arbitrary set of two distinct vertices. Hence for \(n\) verticies, the maximum size of \(E\), \(|E| = {n \choose 2}\).


*defn* Path
Let \(g = (V, E)\) be a graph, and \(u, v \in V\). We say \(u\) and \(v\) are neighbours or are *adjacent* when \((u, v) \in E\).
> A path between \(u\) and \(v\) is a sequence of verticies \(v_0, v_1, ..., v_k\) where 
>   * \(v_0 = u\)
>   * \(v_k = v\)
>   * \(\forall i \in {0, 1, ..., k-1}, v_i\) and \(v_{i+1}\) are adjacent.
>   * All vertices \(v_0, v_1, ... v_k\) are distinct. 
>  The *length* of the path is the number of edges in the path. In this case, the edges is \(k\).
>  We allow \(u = v\), and hence we have a path of length 0.
>  We allow \((u, v) \in E\), hence we have a path of length 1.

*defn* Connectedness
> We say a subset of nodes is *connected* if every vertex in the subset has a Path to it. A graph is fully connected if \(\forall u, v \in V\), \(u\) and \(v\) is connected.
> \(Conn(g, u, v)\) is true if \(u\) and \(v\) are connected in \(g\). As well, \(Conn(g, u, v) \implies Conn(g, v, u)\), as well \(Conn(g, u, v) \land Conn(g, v, w) \implies Conn(g, u, w)\)
> 

*Question* What is the smallest number of edges if \(g\) is connected?
 
 **Theorem**. Let \(g = (V, E)\) be a graph. \(\forall n \in \mathbb{N}. |v| = n \land Connected(g) \implies |E| = n-1\).
 **Proof**. A higher level proof: A tree is a minimally connected graph, in that they have no cycles. and all trees have n-1 edges.
