# 2018-03-19

## **Example**
Consider the followingn pseudo code.

```python
"""
Checks if all numbers in A are all even.
"""
def all_even(A):
  n = len(A)
  for i in range(1, n):
    if is_odd(a[i]):
      print("Not all even")
      return
```
We denote \(WC(n)\) as the worse case of `all_even`. \(x \text { len } n\) is read (`x` is of length `n`).
**Show that \(WC(n) \in \Theta(n)\)**.
1. \(WC(n) \in O(n)\)
  \[\exists n_0, c_0 \in \mathbb{N}^+ \forall n \geq n_0 \forall x. x \text{ len } n \implies Runtime(x) \leq c_0 \cdot n \]
  
  We can simply do a static analysis of the code. Pick \(n_0, c_0 = 1\). Let \(x\) be a list of length \(\geq 1\). The runtime of * is 1-step since it is a block of code without loops. Hence the runtime on \(x\) is at most \(n\)-step. Since the for-loop executes \(n\) times if it never quits early, we have that \(WC \in O(n)\) 
  
2. \(WC(n) \in \Omega(n)\)
  We need to provide an input family where the runtime is in \(\Omega(n)\). 
  \[\exists n_0, c_0 \in \mathbb{N}^+. \forall n \geq n_0 \exists x. x \text{ len } n \land Runtime(x) \geq c_0 \cdot n\]
  
  Note that \(x\) in input family. For every \(n\), we need to provide an individual \(x_n\). Let \(n_0, c_0 = 1\). Let \(n \geq n_0\), choose \(x\) to be a list of length \(n\) such that every element in \(x\) is 2. (Notice that \(x\) depends on \(n\)). We want to show that \(Runtime(x) \geq c_0 n = n\). Since \(x_i\) is even for all \(i = 1...n\). The for loop on this \(x\) executes \(n\) times, so the runtime on \(x\) is at least \(n\).
  
**Show that \(BC(n) \in \ Theta(1)\)**
1. \(BC(n) \in \Omega(1)\)
  \[\exists n_0, c_0. \forall n \geq n_0 \forall x. x \text { len } n \implies Runtime(n) \geq c_0 \]
  Pick \(n_0, c_0 = 1\). Let \(n \geq n_0\). Let \(x\) be a list of length \(n\). The algorithm on \(x\) must execute at least the first line, so the runtime is **at least** 

2. \(BC(n) \in O(1))\)
  \[\exists n_0, c_0. \forall n \geq n_0 \exists x. x \text { len } n \implies Runtime(n) \leq c_0\]
  Pick \(n_0, c_0 = 1\). Let \(n \geq n_0\). Let \(x\) be a list of length \(n\) such that the first item is odd. The algorithm on \(x\) will break on the first item, hence the loop will run once, so we have \(BC(n) \in O(1)\)


## **Example**
Consider the following algorithm.

```python
def funny(n):
  if is_odd(n):
    for i in range(1, n):
      print(n)
  if is_even(n):
    for i in range(1, n ** 2):
      print(n)
```

This algorithm does one thing if a number is odd, and another if it is even. For all even inputs, we have that the runtime is \(\Theta(n^2)\), and for odd inputs we have the runtime is \(\Theta(n)\). Hence we have, for this algorithm `funny`, \(WC(n) \in \Theta(n^2)\), and \(BC(n) \ \in \Theta(n)\).

**Show that \(WC(n) \in O(n^2)\)**

1. \(WC \in O(n^2)\)
\[\exists n_0, c_0 \forall n \geq n_0. Runtime(n) \leq c_0 n^2\]

Choose \(n_0, c_0 = 1\).
If \(n\) is an even number, the runtime is in \(n^2)\), and if \(n\) is odd, the runtime is in \(n\). Therefore the runtime is never more than \(n^2\).

2. \(WC \in \Omega(n^2)\)
\[\exists n_0, c_0 \forall n \geq n_0. Runtime(n) \geq c_0 n^2\]

This is false, because for odd \(n\), the function is lower-bounded by \(n\).

**Show that \(BC(n) \in \Omega(n)\)**
\[\exists n_0, c_0 \forall n \geq n_0. Runtime(n) \geq c_0 n\]

Choose \(n_0, c_0 = 1\).
If \(n\) is an even number, the runtime is in \(n^2\), and if \(n\) is odd, the runtime is in \(n\). Therefore the runtime is never less than \(n\).

We can use the simpler notatation \(Runtime(n) \in O(n^2) \land Runtime(n) \in \Omega(n)\). This is because we only have one input of size \(n\), hence the worst and best case collapse into a single \(Runtime(n)\).
