---
tags: 
  - complete induction
---
# 2018-09-13

## Strong Induction
**Example**
> \(\text{"Every natural number greater than 1 has a prime factorization."}\)

For example, 

|n|factorization|
|-|-------------|
|2|2|
|3|3|
|4|2x2|
|5|5|
|6|2x3|
|7|7|
|8|2x2x2|

How does the factorization of 8 inform the factorization of 9?

### Notation
We write the following statement
>\(\forall k \in \mathbb{N}, k < n \implies P(k)\)

as the following
\[\land_{k=0}^{k=n-1} P(k)\]

Thence, **strong induction** for a predicate \(P(n)\) is as follows.

\[\big(\forall n \in \mathbb{N}, \land_{k=0}^{k=n-1} P(k) \implies P(n)\big) \implies \forall n \in \mathbb{N}. P(n)\]

In english, we are assuming that the hypothesis \(H(n)\) is true for every natural number from the starting point up to \(n\), and then we show that the claim is true for \(n+1\). On occasion, we can embed the base cases in the inductive step.

### Example

Consider

\[
f(n) = \begin{cases}
1 & n \leq 1 \\
[f(\lfloor \sqrt{n} \rfloor)]^2 + 2 f(\lfloor \sqrt{n} \rfloor)& n > 1\\
\end{cases}
\]

We check some cases to make a conjecture

|n|f(n)|
|---|---|
|0|1|
|1|1|
|2|3|
|3|3|
|4...15|15|
|16|255|


We claim that \(\forall n \in \mathbb{N}, n > 1 \implies 3 | f(n)\).

**Proof**
> **Base Cases**
> \(f(2) = 3 = f(3)\), as shown previously  
> **Inductive Step**
> Let \(n \in \mathbb{N}\), \(n \geq 4\). Assume, by the principle of strong induction, \(\land_{k=2}^{k=n-1} P(k)\).
> Notice in the special case of \(n = 2\), we have assumed nothing. We want to show that \(P(n)\) follows, that is that \(f(n)\) is a multiple of three.
> We know that \(f(n) = f(\lfloor\sqrt{n}\rfloor))^2 + 2f(\lfloor \sqrt{n} \rfloor) =  f(\lfloor\sqrt{n}\rfloor)) \times (f(\lfloor \sqrt{n} \rfloor) +2)\)
> By the inductive hypothesis, for some \(k \in \mathbb{N}\), this is equal to \(3k \times (f(\lfloor \sqrt{n} \rfloor) +2)\), since \(\sqrt{n} \geq \sqrt{4}\), and \(\sqrt{n} < n, n \geq 4\)
> Hence \(f(n)\) is a multiple of 3.


The fact that \(\sqrt{n} < n\) is central to this proof, and invokes the principle of strong induction to reason about \(f(k)\) for a smaller value of \(k = \lfloor\sqrt{n}\rfloor\).

## Zero Pair Free Binary Strings \(zpfbs\)

Denote by \(zpfbs(n)\) the number of binary strings of length \(n\) that are free of of adjacent zeroes. What is \(f(n) = zbfps(n)\) for the first few natural numbers \(n\)?

\(f(0) = 1\)
\(f(1) = 2\)
\(f(2) = 3\)
\(f(3) = 5\)
\(f(4) = 8\)
\(f(5) = 13\)
\(f(6) = 21\)

Consider the number of binary strings of length 4 that have no adjacent zeroes.

Binary strings of length 4 that end in 1 and have no adjacent zeroes are simply a binary string of length 3 with a 1 appended. 

Similarly, those of length 4 that end in 0 and have no adjacent zeroes are binary strings of length 3 that end in 1, with a zero appended to it. Alternatively, they are the binary strings of **length 2** with 10 appended.

Hence we conjecture \(f(n) = \begin{cases} 1 & n = 0 \\ 2 & n = 1 \\ f(n-2) + f(n-1) & n > 1 \end{cases}\)

To prove this we use complete induction.

**Proof.**
> Let \(n \in \mathbb{N}\) Assume \(\land_{k=0}^{k=n-1} P(k)\). We want to show \(P(n)\) follows, that is \(f(n) = zpfbs(n)\) following our conjecture.

**Case \(n \geq 2\)**.
> Note that \(zpbfs(n)\) counts binary strings of length \(n\) that end in a 1 and those that end in 0. Ending in 1 doesn't introduce or take away any pairs of zeroes, so there are \(zpfbs(n-1)\) of such binary strings, by hypothesis, since \(n - 1 < n\) and \(n-1 \geq 0\). 
> Ending in 0 is a problem, so we will only count the binary strings of length \(n\) that end in 10, and by the hypothesis, there are \(zpfbs(n-2)\) of such binary strings, by hypothesis, since \(n - 2 < n\) and \(n-2 \geq 0\). 
> Altogether, we have \(zpfbs(n-2) + zpfbs(n-1)\) and hence is equivalent to our conjecture of \(f\).

Note that to use strong induction in a valid proof, **we require that the range of \(n\) be within the range specified for our inductive hypothesis**.

**Case \(n < 2\).**
> If \(n\) were 0, then the only possible binary string is the empty string, and as claimed \(zbfps(0) = 1\). If \(n\) were 1, then the only possible binary strings are 1 and 0, and as claimed has a set size of 2.

## Prime Factorization
**Conjecture:** All natural numbers can be written as a product of one or more primes.

**Proof:**
> Let \(n > 2\) be an arbitrary, fixed, natural number. Again, assume \(P(2), ... P(n-1)\)

**Case \(n\) is Prime**
> \(n\) has a prime factorization that is itself.
**Case \(n\) is Composite**.
> Since \(n\) is not prime, it is product of some numbers \(k, l \in \mathbb{N}\). Since \(k > 1\), and \(l < n\) by the inductive hypothesis they must have some prime factorization. Hence \(n\) has a prime representation is a product of \(k\) and \(l\). 

Note that we must bound the divisors of \(n\).


 