# 2018-02-06

## Late Choson Korea
* Last Korean Imperial State
* Tribitary relationship with Manchu Qing
  * Korea would send tribute to the Qing kingdom
    * exotic animals
    * resources
  * A form of trade with China with Military presence in return
* Isolationist
  * No trade
  * No catholics
  * No Japan
* Royal intrigues
  * Court factions
  * Daewogun vs Queen Min (Empress Myeongseong)
    * Min was married to Gojong at the age of 16 and became Empress
    * Daewogun was cooperative with the Japanese 
    * Daewogun conspired to remove Myeongseong from the political arena
* Foreign intrusions in Korea 
  * General Sherman incident (1866)
  * Adventure of Ernst Oppert (1868)
  * Battle of Ganghwa (1871)
  * Japanese intrusions
    * Treaty of Ganghwa (1876)

Peasant rebellions
  * Donghak religion (1860s)

Korea was a closed kingdom in the 1800s similar to Tokugawa Japan. Ernst Oppert attempted to dig up the bones of the Royal Clan in Korea to pressure Korean rulers to open up the country to trade. He led a party of graverobbers to attempt to dig the bones up but failed. 

Japan wanted to block other powers from Korean trade, and monopolize Korean resources.
  * Taking Korea
  * Taking China
  * Move Imperial Capital of Japan to Bejing

### Rise of 東學 (동학) Donghak
* Meaning eastern learning
* Countered "western learning" resulting from introduction of western ideals and Catholicism
* Started by Choe Ju-e
  * Was unable to take the imperial exam
  * "Not even China could stand up to [western powers]"
* Draws from confuscianism, christianity, and folk religion
* Positioned himself as a 'jesus' figure, claimed he had divine power
* He was arrested and killed by the government in 1863 after his followers rebelled.

Korean requested Qing for forces to quell the rebellion, but this action broke a treaty between the Qing and Japan to not impose influence on Korea. Japan sent out army in Korea to counter Chinese influence causing first Sino-Japanese War in 1894-95. 

Korea was release from the tributary relationship with Qing, but Japan would move in and usurp Chinese influence in Korea.

Western powers attempted to push back Japanese influence in Korea, leading to the Russo-Japanese war (fought mostly in Manchuria). 

Taiwan was also ceded to Taiwain after the Sino-Japanese war. Japan officially annexed Korea in 1910
## Collapse of Manchu Dynasty, fonding of ROC

* Hundred days of Reform 1898
  * initiated by the Manchu Emporer in 1898 to catch up to Japan
  * Reform education
  * Military affairs
  * Political system
  * Emporer issued over 40 edicts which enacted would have radically transformed Manchu China

For decades there have been reformers to push for reformation of the society. When the Manchus attempted and failed at these reforms, the reformers grew disillusioned. There was also a view that the Manchus were barbaric and non Chinese. Seen as an alien race that dominated China for several centurals.

Increasingly radical movements were led by Dr. Sun Yat-sen. Born in Guangdong to Hakka parents. Wanted to establish a republic in place of the Qing Dynasty. 

Formed the Chinese Revolutionary Alliance to overthow the Qing government. Expel barbarians (Manchus), revive China, estalblish republican government, equalize land ownership.

* modern reforms weakened confucian ideology
* questionable loyalty of new army
* provincial autonomy to local regional powers
* need for increased taxation, greater economic burden on peasants

## 1911 Revolution
* Empire attempted to nationalise railroad projects, which the Qing government previous allowed provinces to organize construction themselves.
* Qing attempted to nationalise the railways and sell rights to foreign powers to pay off debts 
* Railway protection movement (1910-11)
  * Qing suppression
  * Wuchang uprising
  * National civil war and demise of Qing state
* Revolutionaries took advantage of the chaos, and caused the "railway protection issue" to the overthrow Qing. 
* Central government tried to deploy the "New Army"
* Revolutionaries infiltrated the New Army units 
  * Began to make bombs
  * October 10 radical soldiers fired shots
  * Started a mutiny in the city
  * Telegramed other provinces to urge them to rebel
* Wuchang uprising took revolutionary leaders by surprise
  * Sun Yat-sen was travelling to US to raise money from overseas Chinese
  * Was not until December when he returned to China to take charge of the provisional government