# 2018-01-16

* When we speak of *East Asia*, we exclude the area known as *Southeast Asia* such as Vietnam and Indonesia.
* Even more northwards is Siberia
* States rose and fell
* As contemporaries we think that such states as China held millennia long existence.
  * 21st/20th century "states" after WWII and UN are more stable
  * Wars are less likely to happen to happen due to Mutually Assured Destruction
  * Emporers always believed that their states would last forever
    * Longest dynasties lasted couple hundred years
* Instability and fluidity on human history
* Do not let present distort the understading of the past.
* China is an 'abstraction'
* People of the Tang state called themselves the people of Tang (唐人) rather than Chinese.
* "China" emerged in the late 19th century and the 20th century idea of a modern nation-state.
* Was the Korean vassal states part of China or Korea?

## Break-up of the Yuan (Mongol) Dynasty 1271-1368
* Radically transformed political scene of East Asia
  * Led to creation of two new dynastic states
    * Ming Dynasty on China
    * Choson Dynasty on the Korean Peninsula
  * Relieved political pressure on Japan
    * Period of political stability of mid to late Edo Japan
  * Left open vast stretches of territory that were subject to non-governance and competition
    * Siberia
  * Shogunate allowed vassal states relative autonomy in exchange for pledging loyalty to Tokugawa.
* Ming Dynasty began to decline in its 3rd century of existence
  * Bureaucratic corruption
  * Emporer engages only in pleasure
  * Barbarians
  * Neglecting state affairs
    * Emporer did not have audience with his state ministers
* A particular Manchu clan (Aisin Gioro) in the Siberian area began the Qing dynasty
  * Descendants of the Jurchens
  * Nurhaci united the Jurchen clans into the Manchus and led these clans to conquer Ming territory.
  * Nurhaci's successor Hong Taiji  (1597-1643) conquered the Ming kingdom and declaared the Qing dynasty.
  * Manchus were able to pass the Great Wall
* Manchus forced Han to wear hair in the Queue hairstyle.
  * After the fall of the Qing, Hans shaved their Queue to be free of Manchu oppression
* How did a small clan become ruler of China?
  * Sinizization
    * Chinese Elites enabled the Manchus to govern China
    * No one really utilized the Manchu language by the 20th century
    * Manchu identity became weakened in the 18th century

## High Qing
* Territorial expansion
* Military power
* Peace and unity
* Qing had a variety of Tribute states
  * Annam Vietnam
  * Burma
  * Dzungars
  * Khanate of Kokand
  * Korea
  * Lanfang Republic (Borneo, until Dutch occupation)
* Bureaucrats and Gentry were quite pourous by the Imperial Central Exam
* Officials and Gentry
* Monarchy depended on the Gentry for local governance
* Gentry depended on the Monarchy for defense and cultural legitamacy
* fought against female infanticide to fight population overgrowth
* new food sources
* smallpox inoculation
* Qing population exploded during the mid Qing
* New world food crops were brought to China
## European Viewpoints
* Viewed China as an ideal land ruled by meritocratic Mandarin officials
* Confucian was the greatest sage
* The emporer is not only a ruler but a philosopher
* 