---
tags:
 - structural induction
 - well ordering
---
# 2018-09-20

## Structural Induction

Extend from simpler objects to more complex induction, but with induction step defined.

Define the set inductively, so we can use induction on it. For example, define \(\mathbb{N}\) as the smallest set such that 

1. \(0 \in \mathbb{N}\).
2. \(n \in \mathbb{N} \implies n + 1 \in \mathbb{N}\)

When we say *smallest*, we mean that \(\mathbb{N}\) has no proper subsets that satisfy these conditions. Without this restriction, \(\mathbb{C}, \mathbb{R}, \mathbb{Z}, \mathbb{Q}, ...\), etc. also satisfy the definition.

We can use induction by showing that the base elements has the property \(P\) in this case \(P(0)\), and then show that when we use the rules to produce the next elements, argue that the new elements also satisfy \(P\).

For example, define \(\varepsilon\) to be the smallest set such that \(x, y, z \in \varepsilon\), and \(e_1, e_2 \in \varepsilon \implies (e_1 + e_2), (e_1 - e_2), (e_1 \times e_2), (e_1 \div e_2)\).

Note that we have defined parenthesis to be valid tokens in this language.

Some expressions in \(\varepsilon\), \((x-y), (x-x), (x-y) \times (x-x)\). 

We conjecture that the number of operators is one less than the variables.

\[
P(e) : vr(e) = op(e) + 1
\]

Note that there are 4 rules: \(\{+, \times, \div, -\}\), but we will simply use a variable \(@\).

We parallel the recursive set definition to prove \(P\) is true for all \(e \in \varepsilon\). 

**Proof**:
**Verify base case**
*Show the property is true for the simplest members \(\{x, y, z\}\)*. 
> Let \(c \in \{x, y, z\}\). \(c\) thence has one variable \(c\), and no operators. So \(P(x), P(y), P(z)\) are verified.

**Inductive Step**
> Let \(e_1\), and \(e_2\) be arbitrary elements of \(\varepsilon\). Assume \(P(e_1), P(e_2)\). Let \(@ \in \{+, -, \times, \div\}\) We want to show that \(P(e_1 @ e_2)\) follows. Notice that \(vr(e) = 1 = 0 + 1 op(e) + 1\).

> \(vr((e_1 @ e_2)) = vr(e_1) + vr(e_2)\), as same variables on both sides.

By the induction hypothesis, we have that 
> \(vr((e_1 @ e_2)) = vr(e_1) + vr(e_2) = op(e_1) + op(e_2) + 2\)

Finally, as \(e_1 @ e_2\) has 1 more operator than those of \(e_1\) and \(e_2\), we have

\(op(e_1) + op(e_2) + 2 = op(e_1 @ e_2) + 1\)
Which is \(P(e_1 @ e_2)\).
\(\blacksquare\)

We define the heights on this set \(h(x) = h(y) =h(z) = 0\), and \(h((e_1 \odot e_2)) = 1 + max(h(e_1), h(e_2))\), if \(e_1, e_2 \in \varepsilon\), and \(\odot \in \{+, \times, -, \div\}\).

What are the connections between the number of variables and the height?

Look at the expression 
\((((x+y)-(z+x))-((y+z)-(x+y)))\)

From examination, we see that 1 variable has a height of 0, 2 of 1, 4 variables of 2, 8 variables of height 3.

We conjecture that the number of variables is less than or equal to \(2^{h(e)}\).

Consider the claim

\[P(e): vr(e) \leq 2^{h(e)} \]

**Proof:**

**Verify the basis**
> Let \(c \in\{x, y, z\}\). \(vr(c) = 1\), and by the definition of height, \(h(c) = 0\). Then we have \(1 \leq 2^0 = 1\). This verifies the basis.

**Inductive step:**
> Let \(e_1, e_2 \in \varepsilon\). Assume \(P(e_1), P(e_2)\). Let  \(\odot \in \{+, \times, -, \div\}\).
> Then \(vr((e_1 \odot e_2)) = vr(e_1) + vr(e_2) \leq 2^{h(e_1)} + 2^{h(e_2)}\), since no change in variable count happened, and by the inductive hypothesis.
> Take \(h\) to be the max of the heights of \(e_1\) and \(e_2\). Hence  \(vr(e_1) + vr(e_2) \leq 2 \cdot 2^{h} = 2^{h+1} = 2^{h(e_1\odot e_2})\).
> The final step by definition of the height.

## Well-ordering 

Quotient remainder theorem

\[\forall n, m, n \neq 0, R = \{r \in \mathbb{N} | \exists q \in \mathbb{N}, m = qn+r\}\]

has a smallest element.

Unique quotion and remainder:

**Well ordering principle**
Take any set of natural numbers that is non empty. That set has a smallest element.


\[
\forall m \in \mathbb{N} \forall n \in \mathbb{N} - \{0\}, \exists q, r \in \mathbb{N}, m = qn + r \land 0 < r < n
\]

Use: every non empty subset of \(\mathbb{N}\) has a smallest element

> Let \(m \in \mathbb{N}\), and let \(n \in \mathbb{N}_1\). Let \(R = \{r | \exists q, m = rn + q\}\), then R is non-empty, since \(m \in R\). Also \(R \subseteq \mathbb{N}\). By PWO, \(R\) has a smallest element, call it \(r'\). It has a corresponding \(q'\) such that \(m = q' + r'\).
> Assume for contradiction, \(r' \geq n\). Then \(r' - n \geq 0\). Then \(m = q' n + r' = (q' + 1)n + (r' -n)\).
> But then \(r'' = r'-n \in R\), and \(r' - n < r'\). \(r'\) is supposed to be the smallest element in the set, but by removing \(n\) we have a contradiction.
> Since by assuming \(r' geq n\) yields a contradiction, the assumption is false. So \(n > r \geq 0\).
>

## Round Robin Tournaments

\(P(n):\) Every round robin tournament with \(n\) plays with a cycle has a 3-cycle.

Claim: \(\forall n \in \mathbb{N} - \{0, 1, 2\}, P(n)\).

Let \(T\) be a tournament with at least one cycle. Let \(C = \{c | c \text{ is the length of a cycle in T } \}\). Then \(C\) is non empty, so it has a smallest element \(c'\). Assume, for the sake of contradition, that \(c' > 3\).

If there is a cycle \(p_1 > p_2 > p_3 ... > p_n> p_1\), can you find a shorter one? \(p_1 > p_3\), or \(p_3 > p_1\). 

If \(p_1 > p_3\), and we have a shorter cycle, which is a contradiction.
If \(p3 > p_1\), replace \(... > p_n\) by \(p_1\), and we have shortened the cycle. By asuming that \(c'\)
