# 2018-02-11 Reading Response

  In *The Chinese Enlightenment* Vera Schwarcz compares the social upheaval of early 20th century China to the Age of Enlightenment that occurred in Europe nearly two centuries before. Frame against the backdrop of the May Fourth Movement in 1919, Schwarcz compares and contrasts the notion of "enlightenment" viewed through the lens of Chinese thinkers and philosophers in the 20th century and the 18th century thinkers in Europe.

  Schwarcz draws a strong parallel to the cultural and intellectual upheaval, especially in regards to tradition, nationalism, and identity that occurred during the tumultuous period near the end of the Qing dynasty to the Enlightenment movement that occurred a century and a half ago in Europe and the Western World, leading to advancements in technology, philosophy, and social ideals. Schwarcz argues that these Chinese thinkers having studied and observed the modern world and its ideals were pushing to bring to China an enlightenment of its own. Unwilling to place blame on a foreign boogeyman, these reformers and revolutionaries fault the so-called *backwardness* of Qing-era Chinese society on "feudal tradition", what Schwarcz calls the "subservience to patriarchal authority, be it that of the family or of the state bureaucracy". 

  Schwarcz places central 18th century philosopher *Immanuel Kant*'s question of "what is enlightenment?", and its perhaps broader and more insightful query "what is truth?" to the dillema of Chinese nationalism and the idea of Chinese identity as the cracks beneath the order of the system of dynastic rule and Traditional Confucianism begin to show as their society crumbles around them. Schwarcz places the old order on a similar pedestal as the Christian God that the European thinkers began to reject in the ideal of scientific progress; for the modern Chinese, how too can they reject their own god of filial piety and outdated Confucian traditions, such as the imperial examination system, as they seek to create for themselves a new identity in the ashes of a crumbling and weak imperial rule? 
    
  Unlike the God of the Holy BIble, Schwarcz argues that the thinkers of twentieth century China did not have such a convienient scapegoat to pin their problems upon and move forwards in the radiant light of knowledge and progress. With over a millenia of culture based upon the classical Confucian thought, that which prescribed a strict social order on who was above who, would not rejection of this Confucian dogma be seen as a rejection on the very notion of being *Chinese*? Indeed, Schwarcz points out that these thinkers "faced an added charge: that of being 'un-Chinese'", that these admirers of European thought were deemed "destructive" and "dangerous".
  
  Framing the events that lead to the May Fourth Movement, and thenafter the fall of the Qing Dynasty as a form of "enlightenment" gives context to the motivations and goals of the revolutionaries that brought forth a Modern China, and Schwarcz brings up plentify evidence to support her parallels. However it bodes the question of why this change of attitude should be so easily attributed to Western thought. Was it not the Western colonialism, albeit combined with the incompotency of the later Qing rulers, that brought about what is referred event today as the "Century of Humiliation"? Schwarcz subtly and implicitly credits a major movement towards the Chinese revolution to Western powers, and by doing so implies a superiority of Western ideals over those of the Chinese. Indeed to strengthen the argument, there must be a way to reconcile the dissonance between the encroaching of China by Western powers, and China's own forging of an identity inspired by Western thought.