# 2018-02-27


**A case for colonialism**
* An article that argues that colonialism, in particular east-asian colonialism, advanced east asia in terms of technology, politics, etc. 

* Generated much controversy, eventually retracted the article. 

* Unequal compensation
* "Japan attacked by imperial forces in mid 19thC"
* Modeled on these forces in Meiji Reform in 1868
* Inspired military loyalty and loyalty in the emperor in young men as the basis of the Japanese state.
* Began to push ideas that encouraged military expantionist policies abroad and authoritorian policy domestically. 
* Emporer was worshiped, but country was still governed as an oligarchy
* radicalising developments
* Militant policies came from the military
* Imperial theories
  * Continental policies
  * If we want to counquer the World, we must conquer China. To Conquer china, conquer Mongolia and manchuria. and to do that conquer Korea and taiwan.
  * Seikanron
    * Debate on punitive expedition to Korea
* Both China and Japan send forces to Korea
* Ganghwa Island incident 1875
* Treaty of Ganghwa
* Donghak rebellion and Sino Japanese War
* Treaty of Shimonoseki
* Assasination of Queen Min
* Russo-Japanese War
* Annexation of Korea

## Sino-Japanese War
Caused by the Qing sending troops to suppress Donghak Rebellion, violating a prior treaty with Japan (Treaty of Shimonoseki) that Korea would be an independant country without tributary. (Japan could hence be free to dominate influence in Korea). 

* Japan gesture: "You take Manchuria, and we take Korea', Russia rejected gesture
* North of 39th paralell to be neutral buffer zone
* Russian threat to expansion
* Chose to go to war, in 1905 the Russo-Japanese war broke out. 
* Korea became a protectorate of Japan after 1905
* Russia suffered a miserable defeat
* In 1910, Korea became annexed by Japan. In 1945 after the WWII, Korea was liberated but split into North and South Korea. Russo-Japanese war was the first time an Asian power defeated a Western power.
* In East Asia, Japan became to be seen as a model nation
* Military superiority from the Russo-Japanese war
* China and Korea could be modeled on the Japanese model.
* Many Chinese students went to Japan to study

## Japanese colonization of Korea
* The capital 'seoul' was renamed Keijo
* Shintoism became State religion
* Japanese governor general
* Korean names and such were forced to change to Japanese names
* Forced Korean labor and military service
* Cultural colonization
* Royal Palace was destroyed and "starved of its vital energy (Qi) of the korean royal palace" so now korean fortune now hands of Japanese
* Labor shortage by 1942 after the pacific war Japanese authorities expanded national conscription law to include Korean workers and Manchuria and manchukuo
* Approx 2000 Koreans died in Nagasaki
* Japan also put Koreans into its military
  * 1930s based on voluntary service 
    * Small scale. ~1000
  * 1940s War exemplified in both Chinee and pacific theatre and forced conscription
  * 200 000 Koreans drafted into Japanese Army
  * Did not always trust Korean infantry
  * Comfort women issue

## March 1st Movement
* Inequality of nations
* Display of Korean resistance to Japanese colonial rule
* > Inspired by the "Fourteen Points" outlining the right of national "self-determination", which was proclaimed by President Woodrow Wilson at the Paris Peace Conference in January 1919.
* Went to inform Police to situation
* "We did this, come and arrest us".
* Activists were arrested
* Popular gatherings formed a peace procession
* Japanese military police suppressed
* Panicked Japanese officials calling to quell the crowd
* Within the year approx 2million Koreans participated in demonstrations
* 1000s were killed for sabotage, burning down villages, etc. Publically executed, etc. 
* Provided a catalyst for Korean independence movement
* Harshness of Japanese Rule increased support
* Suppression and hunting down of activists by Japanese
* Korean activists went into exile in Shanghai
* Koreans rallied across the world

## 2nd Sino-Japanese War
* Manchura Incident (1931)
  * Japanese blamed Chinese side for sabotage of railways
* Formation of Manchukuo puppet state
* Full war broke out in 1937. Japanese taking Beijing, Tianjin, Shanghai, nanjing

* Pre-empt military incursion from US
* Fight a short war to force US ot negotiate
* Total military success with US is not possible
* Led to pearl harbor in 1941
* Believed US general would agree to negotiate
* US fully mobilized and declared War on Japan