# 2018-01-22 Reading Response 

In *Opium for China*, Gregory Blue gives an overview of the beginnings of the International opium trade, the role of British colonialism in this decades-long operation and the long lasting effects it had on the global opinions of drug use and abuse especially in China and the rest of Asia.

Blue gives examples to why the trade lasted so long and why it eventually ended. The trade was deeply institutionalized by the governments of the involved parties, and was often framed as the result of corruption in Chinese merchants or the greed of British capitalists. The trade was ended after immense social pressure from changing social attitudes in both Britain and China towards the opium trade. Anti-trade groups convinced movements such as women's rights and anti-slavery to adopt their views on the trade, further mounting pressure on the officials and merchants behind the drug economy.

Blue argues that the opium trade was one of the early examples of modern globalization. A formidable economic backbone, the trade tied together the economies of India, China, and Britain in the 19th and early 20th century. Its demise culminated in a historic war and the beginning of the waning of British influence in China. In addition global movements of temperance and prohibition both contributed to and were strengthened by the demise of the opium trade. Blue notes that models of drug legalization were associated with imperial oppression and the reinforcement of the trade to the detriment of Chinese and Indian consumers and producers. Blue argues that there was cross-cultural sentiment across all parties involved that forced the respective governments of each party to dismantle the machinery that lined the pockets of many a capitalist at the cost of the proletariat and led directly to modern attitudes of criminalization policy in drug regulation. 

While Blue may have a convincing argument without considering other factors it is not enough to imply how central the modern opinions on drugs were influenced by the opium trade. Certainly it is enough to argue this for China exclusively but to pull even America into the trade's sphere of influence through the American temperance movement seems without further evidence to be overestimating the influence of the trade on global opinion. Without examining other sources of influence that led to the modern opinion Blue's argument is insufficient to assert his point over such a large scope. However he provides more than sufficient evidence to the development of such attitudes in China, providing examples of overwhelming British influence and oppression that was eventually rejected and overthrown by the Chinese people. 