* FSM controls which branch of execution to calculate
  
* Each FSM has hundreds of branches
  * The opcode determines which branch to execute
  * the branches are chosen by the CPU engineers that does the operation
  * The opcode is part of a larger operation calle dthe instruction
  * Instruction specifies an operation and information about the operation to the rest of the processor
  * The control unit is responsible for executing the operation

* For the purpose of this course, instructions are **32 bit strings** that encode
  * the operation to perform (first 6 bits)
  * other details neded to perform it
  * Instructions and data values are stored in main memory
  * The **stack** is stored in memory


* Execution
 * Fetch
   * Bring the instruction from memory and place it into the instruction register
 * Decode
   * Determine the operation to perform
 * Execute
   * Read the values of registers needed from the register file, and perform any computations needed in the ALU
   * Access memory if needed
   * Write back any data that needs to be stored in memory or registers
 * Move 
   * Jump to the next instruction in memory
 * We need a **program counter** that keeps track of what instruction we are in. Every time an instruction is executed, the program counter increments the address to load the next register.
 * How do we update the program counter?
   * Instructions are usually executed sequentially
   * Where does it go to find the next instruction?
     * Assume byte-addressable memory (memory where every byte is unique)
     * A piece of memory is a single byte.
   * Each word is 4 bytes, so each instruction takes up a word. The program counter increases by 4 each time.
   * The program counter can be decremented for a loop or a jump instruction
   * The last thing that the control unit does is update the program counter.

## Lab 7
* Create a RAM unit
  * Make use of the IP Catalog in Quartus
  * Connect the RMA to the switches, keys and HEX

* VGA
  * Draw pixels on the screen
    * `VGA(X, Y, COLOR(R, G, B), PLOT, CLOCK, RESET_N)`
    * There is a buffer that draws the RGB values.
    * When PLOT is on, that will blit the buffer onto the screen
  * We use a 4 bit counter, split MSB to x and LSB to Y, `YYXX` to draw the box.