# 2019 03 20


Consider this snippet of C code.

```c
int n = 10;
int f1 = 1;
int f2 = -1;

while (n != 0) {
    f1 = f1 + f2;
    f2 = f1 - f2;
    n = n - 1;
}

return f1;
```

Can we convert this into MIPS assembly (without optimization)?

Well, we need registers. Let's have (arbitrarily) `n -> $a2, f1 -> $s1, f2 -> $v1`

```mips
FIB:  addi $a2, $zero, 10     # n = 10
      addi $s3, $zero, 1      # f1 = 1
      $addi $v1, $zero, 1     # f2 = -1
LOOP: beq $a2, $zero, END
      add $s3, $s3, $v1       # f1 = f1 + f2;
      sub $v1, $s3, $v1       # f2 = f1 - f2;
      addi $a2, $a2, -1       # n = n - 1 (remember, no subi).
      j LOOP                  # goto j
END:  sb $t4, 0($sp)          # store result (store byte from $t4 into $sp)
```

There are 4 types of jumps

`j LABEL`, which is a normal jump
`jr $s`, which jumps to the address in the given address

`jal LABEL`, and `jalr $s`, are "jump and link" instructions. They're used for functions, and the address to jump back to is saved in `$ra = $31`. (return address)

The non-link jumps are used for loops. Linked jumps jump to and back into a function.

The address that we jump to, for `j` and `jal`, is supplied by the instruction.

Notice
```
| opcode |   address   |
     6         26
```

One possible problem is that we can't jump to an address that isn't divisible by 4. 

The program counter is 32 bits end to end. How can we specify an address in only 26 bits??

Well, since all the instructions are multiple of 4s, the last two bits of the program counter are going to be 00.

```
PC: XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX00
```

However, we still have 4 bits leftover at the front!

Notice that there is a `shl2` unit hooked up the the instruction register, which shifts the address by 2 (since all jumpable addresses end in 00).

Then for the upper 4 bits, whatever bits were there to start with, we're going to put in whatever was there.

```c
pc = (pc & 0xF0000000000) | (i <<2 )
```

Then the hope is we will never need to jump to any address that the first 4 bits of the program counter is not jumped to.


We also have branch instructions. There are four of them. `beq`, `bgtz`, `bltz`, and `bne`. `gtz/ltz` is greater than/less than zero.
