
* Which one goes into input A?
* Which one goes into input B?
* Every time we need a value, we fetch it from memory and feed it into the register
* Results are send back to memory
* What actually happens is a single set of address bits, and a single set of databits.
* Declared as `inout`. The databits can be written and read from.
* They come out from the same n-bit wires.
* Conflicts arise when multiple sources write to the same wires!
* Concurrency conflicts?
  * The wire will catch fire and burn! One wire connected to high voltage, one to low.
* We need a way to make sure that no two writes happen on the same wire at the same time.
* We now use a buffer gate to make sure data values go in one direction only.

|WE|A|Y|
|--|-|-|
|0|X|Z|
|1|0|0|
|1|1|1|

This is the tri-state buffer. When the write-enable signal (WE) is on, then the value of A will be put into Y. Otherwise, Y will be `Z`, or **nothing**. **Not 0**. This is a **high impedence** signal. If we connect buffers to the input wires of the memory, and only have one turn on, this will act as a mutex for the memory.

```
|-A |->|
|-B |>>|
|-C |->|
|-D |->|
|      |B
+------+
```

In this case, `>>` denotes that the write enable is ON. Since the B is on, the B signal goes out the signal. Having one buffer in front of each input row, instead using a giant multiplexer, is much more economical.

This is called a databus. When reading from memory, only one location can write to a bus at a time (this location is called a bus driver).

If we're writing from the bus, that means the decoder tells us that we want to read, and also we need a singal that tells us we want to write to activate the buffer.

Note how the bus signal feeds back into the memory rows.

## Asynchronous SRAM
We don't know how long the memory access will take. The idea is we leave out the read for as long as possible.

* Each memory read and write is done in stages.
* Each stage takes a certain amount of time.
* Address Setup Time
  * time for address to be stable before enabling write signal
* Address Hold time
  * time for address to be stable after enabling write signal
* Write Pulse Width
* Data Setup Time
  * Time for data-in value to be set up at destination
* Data Hold Time
  * Time data-in value should stay unchanged after write signal changes.
* We need to turn things off in the right order
* If the address gets turned off first, we will start writing to some random address. After turning off the write signal, we need to hold the data signal on for some time to ensure that the data signal isn't corrupt.
* 


