# 2019-10-16
* Peterson's algorithm and Lamport's Bakery
  * Peterson's algorithm uses turns
    ```c
    P1:      flag[1] = true;
    P1_gate: turn = 0;
         while (flag[0] == true && turn == 0)
         {
             // busy wait
         }
         // critical section
         ...
         // end of critical section
         flag[1] = false;
    ```
   * lamport's bakery
* Disable interrupts
  * disable interrupts in a uniprocessor
  * ensure no one interrupts you in critical section
* not sufficient on a multiprocessor
  * we need atomic instuctions.
  * ```c
    bool test_and_set(bool *lock) {
        bool old = *lock;
        *lock = true;
        return old;
    }
    ```
    This is a semantic definition, not the actual definition.
    `lock` is always true on exit from `test-and-set`.
  * Lock is always true when you leave the test and set. If it was false, then the lock was available and now it's not available.
  * Spin lock
    * continuously checking the value of the lock, consuming CPU cycles.
    * spinlocks built on machine instructions
      * busy waiting
      * starvation
        * when a thread leave its CS, next one to enter depends on scheduling
        * a waiting thread may be defined forever
      * deadlocks possible through *priority inversion*
  * Would rather put the thread to sleep when we wait.
    * wait queues
  * higher level abstractions
    * semaphores
      * integer counter variable accessed through 2 atomic
      * atomic `wait` or decrement, may block if sem is 0.
      * atomic `signal` increment variable
      * ```c
        void wait(sem) {
            while(sem <= 0);
            sem--;
        }
        void signal(sem) {
            sem++;
        }
        ```
      * in practice semaphore variable is never negative.
      * semaphore represents number of threads waiting on a resource.
      * mutexes or binary semaphores
        * single access to a resource
        * mutual exclusion to a critial section
      * counting semaphore
        * resource with many units available
        * multiple threads can pass the semaphore
        * max number of threads determined by semaphore's initial value or count.
      * mutex has count = 1, counting has count = N
    * locks
    * conditional variables
    * monitors
  * 