# 2019-11-18

* Locality
* Policies
  * Fetch policy
    * when to fetch a page
      demand paging vs prepaging
  * Placement policy
    * Are some physical pages preferable to others
  * Replacement policy
* Demand paging
  * bring a page when we access a value on that page
  * pages evicted to disk when memory is full
  * reference to evicted pages cause TLB miss
    * PTE was invalid causes "major" fault
  * OS allocates page frame and reads page from disk
  * when IO completes OS fills in PTE, marks it valid and restarts faulting process
  * Use when we first start a process
  * When a process is created, it has
    * A brand new page with all valid bits off
    * No pages in memory
  * When process begins to exec
    * Instructions fault on code and data pages
    * Faulting stops when necessary code and data pages are in memory
* Dirty vs. clean pages
  * Actually only dirty pages (written to) need to be swapped
  * clean pages do not
* What is the cost of demand paging?
  * Timing: Disk read init when process needs page. process needs to stall until page is loaded
* Prepaging/prefetching
  * Predict future page use at time of current fault
  * How to predict what the best page to load is?
    * Can we use locality somehow?
  * If we load page A, then usually page A+1 is also loaded.
* Placement policy
  * Put memory in different locations
  * NUMA multiprocessor
    * Any processor can access entire memory but local memory is faster
  * Cache performance
    * Choose physical pages to minimize cache conflicts
  * Active research areas (CSC469)!
* Placement policy have smaller effect than fetch and replacement policy
* Replacement policy
  * When a page fault occurs OS loads faulted page from disk into a page frame or memory
    * "major" page fault - load page into memory
    * "minor" page fault - TLB miss, but page still in physical memory. PTE was not loaded.
  * need to choose which page to evict when we have a major miss
    * if the victim page is clean, we need to swap page to disk
* memory reference string is the sequence of pages that are accessed
* best one to throw out is the one you will never use. the next best one (belady's algo) is to choose the one that will not be used longest in the future
  * belady's is useful as a yardstick
  * problem is that we need perfect knowledge of the future
* FIFO replacement algorithm
  * on replacement evict the oldest one
  * maintain list of pages in order
  * obvious algorithm and simple to implement
  * FIFO suffers from belady's anomaly.
    * fault rate might increase when algorithm is given more memory!
    * consider static variables that are pinned to the same place in memory. these are reused over and over again, that cause FIFO to not be great.
* LRU (Least recently used)
  * We can't predict the future, but we can make a guess based on past experience
  * On replacement evict the page that has not been used for the longest time in the past
    * opposite of belady's
  * When does LRU do well? When does LRU do poorly?
    * If we have some repeatedly used data, it will keep floating up
* Implementing PLU
  * time stamp every reference
  * evict page with oldest time stamp
  * problems
    * need PTE big enough to hold meaningful time stamp
* Implementing LRU
  * Keep pages in stack
  * on eviction replace page at bottom
  * problems:
    * need costly software operation to manipulate stack on every memory reference
  * exact LRU is too costly to implement
* Use PTE reference bit
  * Initially all R bits are 0, as processes execute bits are set to 1 for pages that are used.
  * Periodically examine the R bits. we don't know the order of use, but we know pages that were or were not used.
  * look through physmem and check where reference bit was 0.
    * hopefully find one used a long time ago
* Additional-Reference-Bits algorithm
  * keep a counter for each page
  * at regular intervals, for every page do
    * shift reference bit into high bit of counter register
    * shift other bits to right
    * pages with larger counters were used more recently.
  * all we're doing on memory reference is setting a bit.
* clock count stays fixed until we need to evict a page