# 2019-12-02

## Case study TSL/SSL (Transport Layer Security)

* Client connects to server with TCP handshake
* server sends pubkey
* client uses cert to verify pubkey
* client generate symmetric key to send to server encrypted with pubkey
* server decrypts with privkey
* client and server can send data encrypted by symmetric key

* Heartbleed
  * Sends a packet to server with arbitrary payload. Server sends heartbeat packet indicating alive.
  * Bug: client sends 2 byte payload_size. Server sends payload_Size bytes back to cliebnt even when payload_size is much larger than payload sent by client.
  * Client receives up to 64KB of memory from server process that might include secure data.

* Meltdown and Spectre
  * in Jan 2018
  * meltdown affects primarily Intel x86 and ARM
  * race condition in speculative execution
  * launch instructions before results of previous instructions have been computed
  * Meltdown
    * ```c
      if (*secret_word == 's') {
          read K;
      }  
      ```
      Generally you get an exception because `secret_word` is protected.

      If we know the behaviour of the branch predictor, then `K` will be in the cache.

      On the side, we measure the time it takes to read `K`. If `s` is in the secret word, the read would have happened, and if it's in the cache, we will *know* the read happened. 

      By repeating this we can read all of kernel memory.
   * Spectre
     Uses similar approach, but does not need access to privileged memory.

     Uses similar approach to accessing memory the attacker shouldn't have access to, using cache timing to confirm contents of data.
* SSL Timing attack
  * Send key to a server, and time how long it takes to return an invalid password. If it takes longer, then ore of your password is correct.
  * Possible to discover the whole password this way, even over the network using statistics
  * Use constant type decryption algorithms (bcrypt)
* Systems design
  * if we have a fundamental flaw about the bugs, all the crypto in the world won't help 
  * security through obscurity does not help   
* Principle of least privilege
  * Figure out which capabilities a program needs
  * shouldn't need root
  * nfs access control does not verify after mount
  * failsafe
    * start by denying all access
  * SunOS shipped with `+` in `/etc/hosts.equiv`
    * let anyone else login as local user to host
  * Irix shipped with `xhost +`
    * Any remote client can connect to local X server.
* 3 waves of security attack
  * First wave: physical attacks on wires and hardware
    * physical security to defend against this
  * 2nd wave: syntactic attacks on crypto protocols and systems
    * buffer overflows, DDoS attacks
  * 3rd wave: semantic attacks, humans and computers trusting information the shouldn't
    * falsified press announcements
    * semantic attack against people with preprogrammed sell orders  

* Little less emphasis on FS
* Maybe a synchronization question
* Pseudocode is OK
* could be a little bit of security
* no aid sheets 