# 2019-10-07
* Context switch
  * switch CPU to another process
  * save state of the old process
  * load saved state for new process
* When does this happen?
  * Process calls `yield()` syscall
  * Process makes other syscall and is blocked
  * timer interrupt handler switches process
    * when is this needed?
* Part of context switch is done by hardware
  * Need to save k-regs to proc-struct
  * Restore k-regs from proc-struct B
  * switch to k-stack B
  * return-from-trap into B
* When a process exits we can release and make available a lot of resources, but can't discard immediately.
  * Parent may be waiting for exit value.
  * Process retains PID
* In unix, processes are created with `fork()`
  * Creates a new PCB
  * Creates a new address space
  * Inits address space with a copy of the entire contents of the parent (actually COW)
  * Inits kernel resources
  * Places PCB on the ready queue
  * Fork returns in two processes
    * returns childs PID in parent, 0 to child.
* How do we actually start a new program?
  * `exec`
  * Stops the current process
  * Loads prog into process' address space
  * INits hardware context
  * Places PCB into ready queue
  * does not create a new process
    * what does it mean for exec to return? we've overwritten the memory space with exec
* Whenever we need to use a managed resource, we need to ask permission
  * How do we actually invoke the OS?
  * How do we keep applications from just using a resource without asking permission?
  * Causes an interrupt
* Interrupts can be caused by hardware or software
  * Signals CPU that a hardware device has an event that needs attention
  * Can also be a trap
  * CPU jumps to interrupt table, and OS responds to the interrupt handler
* Interrupt table has 4 rings but we only care about 2, system and kernel
  * Getting to kmode is an explicit syscall - request for service by application
  * Hardware interrupt
  * Software trap or exception
    * Hardware has table of ISR (interrupt service routines)
    * What should it save first
  * Kernel to user
    * When OS is finished, get back to application
    * OS sets up registers, MMU mode, for application
    * Jumps to next application instruction
  * OS has to save the user state, switch to kernel, and jump back
    * priviledged instructions
      * IO device
      * Manipulate memory management
      * Mode bits
      * `halt`
      * Enforced by CPU hardware itself
      * `int` traps to system mode on x86
      * syscall handler figures out which syscall is needed and calls a routine for that operation.
        * Only interrupt handler for every syscall!
      * How does this differ from a normal C language function
      * First arg is an code/ID for syscall
        * Kernel verifies arguments that are passed
        * Fixed number of arguents can be passed in register
        * Often we pass the address of a buffer containing the data
        * Result of syscall returned in `eax`
    * Dispatch
    * Syscall number is always the first param in `eax`
    * Pass up to 6 params in `ebx`,
    * In linux, SYSENTER/SYSEXIT is faster than `int 0x80`.
  * Shared memory is very heavyweight
    * Separate PCB, takes time to fork, IPC is heavy weight and needs to context switch
    * Thread model
    * Process is 
      * Address space
        * Code/heap/stack
      * Exec state
        * PC, SP, Stack
        * Registers
      * OS resources
        * file tables, signal handlers, etc.
    * Can we separate exec state from address space? Then multiple threads can share the address space.
      * Need stack space for each thread
      * Needs guard reasons
      * Threads can share static data and heap
      * Kernel level threads
        * If we use kernel-level threads, we need to context switch for thread ops
      * We can use process-level threads to be as fast as a procedure call