## Major Themes

* Virtualization
  * Present physical resouce as a more general form of itself
  * Present illusion of multiple or unlimited resources
  * Ex. CPU, memory, hard drives.
* Concurrency
  * Coordinate multiple activities to ensure correctness
* Persistence
  * Some data needs to survive crashes and power failures
* Need abstractions and policies for all

## How do we virtualize persistent storage?
* Recall OS goals:
  * convenience for the user

## Storage hierarchy
  * Processor registers, main memory, and auxillary memory
  * The hierarchy can be classified according to memory speed, cost, and volatility.
  * Caches can be installed to hide performance differences when there is a large access-time gap

```
CPU (L1) -> L2 -> L3 -> RAM -> HDD -> Network
```

## File Systems
* Provide long-term information storage
* Needs to store large amounts of info
* Info needs to survive termination of porcess
* Multiple processes must be able to access concurrently
* Two views of FS
  * User View - convenient logical organization
  * OS view - managing physical storage media, enforcing access restrictions/concurrency

* Creation
  * find space in FS
  * map file name to location and atts
* Writing
* Reading
  * file as stream
* Repositioning
* Deleting
* Truncation and append
  * may erase contents while keeping attrs

What does opening a file do?
* finds metadata about a file
* stuffs in into a file table in memory
* we don't need to find the file every time we read.

Shared open files
* Per process table
* System wide file table
* Each entry in the per process has a pointer to the system-wide file table.
* GP file systems support simple methods
  * Sequential access (one byte at a time in order)
  * Direct access - ramdom access given block/byte number
* Databse systems support more sphisticated methods
  * Record access
  * Indexed access

* Directry structure
  * list of entries
  * names and associated metadata
  * Lists is usually unordered
    * Entries sroted by program that reads directory
  * Directory typically stored in files

* File Links
  * Sharing can be implemented by creating a new directory called a link -> ointer to another file or subdirectory
  * Symbolic or soft link
    * Directory entry refers to file that holds "true" path to the linked file
  * Hard links
    * Secondary directory entry identical to the first.

|Name|Start|Type|
|--|--|--|
|local|42|dir|
|usr|150|dir|

And so forth.
