# 2019-10-09
* Atomic operation
  * does not allow interrupt
  * consider `count++` inside a thread. This is is unsafe, thread order is non deterministic. How can we implement atomics?
* When we have multiple threads running in shared address spaces we have problems
  * Need a mechanism to switch contexts
  * Choose some policy to choose the next process
    * May be preemptive, thread/process can't anticipate when it may be forced to yield CPU
    * Not easy to detect it has happened: only timing changes.
  * Scheduling
    * interleaving of threads/processes
    * enforce single use of shared resource
      * use a lock so only one thread can print out put to console at a time, making operations atomic
        * `print("Hello"); print("Goodbye")` yields "HelloGoodbye" or "GoodbyeHello" but never "HeGoodllobye"
    * control order of execution
      * want to ensure main thread waits for children to finish.
* Race conditions: bank account.
* **Mutual Exclusion**
  * If we have \(n\) threads \(T_0, ..., T_n\), and a segment of code that access shared resources, called the CS.
  * We want to ensure that one thread at a time can enter. When the thread exits, allow other threads.
    * (mutual exclusion) 
      * If one thread is in CS, then no other thread is**
    * (progress) 
      * If no thread is in the CS, and some threads want to enter CS, only threads not in the remainder section can influence the choice of which thread enters next, and choice can not be postponed indefinitely
    * (bounded writing/no starvation)
      * If some thread is waiting on the CS, there is a limit on the number of times other threads can enter CS before thread is granted access
        * If a thread is waiting for the CS, **it must eventually get in**
    * (performance) 
      * Don't want to make the cost of entering/existing CS too high