# 2021-05-04 Intro

* learn argumentation of syntactic analysis via tests
* What is syntax?
* Things seem to make sense if there is some part of structure
  
* The following sentence can mean two things
  * I rewarded the cat with a fancy bowtie
    * I gave the cat a bowtie as a reward
    * The cat with the bowtie was rewarded
  * It seems that 'with a fancy bowtie' can modify two different things
    * the cat being rewarded
    * the action of rewarding
  * We can represent the two meanings depending on how the sentence is parsed
* There are quite a few issues that can be analyzed simialrly
  * Tuyaa saw herself in the mirror
  * *Tuyaa saw her reflection in [the mirror herself bought]
  * Sartre said that Camus loves himself
    * How does 'himself' refer to Camus, and not Sartre?
  * This can be different depending on the languague
    * Jon segir ad maria elski sig
      Jon says that Maria loves self
      Jon says that Maria loves him/himself
    * self here refers to John?
* Grammar is generative
  * *What did the orange-hat jello man enjoy a grapefruit more than he enjoyed?
  * How do we know this sentence is ungrammatical?
* Recursive property
  * A sentence can infinitely recurse
    * "Sudu thought that Xiao Peng knew that his friend from Japan wanted to go to the hotel that I stayed at after Kazuko recommended I go there with Rabe, but before the spring season, when the bugs...
* Data in the environment is incomplete
  * "Umm, yeah, so like, I dunno if-- I dunno if I can say, that, you know, whether they..."
  * Data that children get is based on performance (lots of fillers)
  * Grammar is not presented in perfect structural pieces
* The lack of data presented to children is called *the Poverty of the Stimulus*
  * yay chomsky
  * speech is too complex to learn by accident
  * UG constitutes properties of the human language organ and much of this is innate.
    * the similarities between languages of the world are more than their differences
    * the brain is expecting to learn a language
* WH-questions
  * a. Who did Bolod remember he heard Baator sing along?
    b. *Who did Bolod write down that he heard Baator sing about?
  * We can't just add the WH-word in the beginning of the sentence
  * a. *What breaking was surprising?
  * What environments can we not do WH-questions?
    * How do babies do this? They don't make these sorts of mistakes
  * There are certain environments called *islands* where we can not move WH-words outside of them
* Structural dependence
  * Linguistic operations target **structure**, not strings of words or linearizations.
  * There are structural **no operations** that count words and look at positions.
  * Positions in a sentence are results of a deeper structure.
  * UG provides the infant with expectations about the types of possible and impossible operations that respect structural relations.
* Grammaticality
  * a. He doesn't know nothing
    * This sentence is descriptively grammatical for many speakers
  * b. *Know doesn't anything he.
    * Ungrammatical for many or all English speakers
  * A sentence can be grammatical but meaningless
    * a. Colorless green ideas sleep furiously
    * b. *Green furiously ideas colourless sleep.
  * there is a separation between syntatic understanding and semantic understanding
* Syntactic ambiguity
  * Consider the cat example
    * I rewarded the cat with a fancy bowtie
      * I gave the cat a bowtie as a reward
      * The cat with the bowtie was rewarded
    * When a sentence like this has multiple meanings, we want to represent each one with different structures
* Distribution
  * The environments where things appear, or what other things appear in the same place
  * Where things can appear
    * a. The bird
    * b. *The takes off
  * Where other things appear in the same place
    * a. It *might* fly away
    * b. It *could* fly away
    * c. \*It *green* fly away
  * We say that "might" and "could" are in complementary distribution
    * In this case, might and could are in the category of modal verbs
    * We can also tell that might/could and green are in different categories.
  * Words have the same distribution if they can appear in the same environment within a sentence or a string or words, or mopheme (morphological distribution.)
* Syntactic categories
  * "Part of speech"
  * Meaning based theory doesn't really work.
    * "Through her writing, she opened a world of exploration and wonder"
  * Which of these words are nouns?
    * 'Wonder'?
    * 'Writing'?
    * 'Exploration'?
  * Words that have the same distribution belong in the same category
  * Generalization for nouns
    * The distinguishing environment is DET _ VERB: NOUN
* Some more distinguishing environments
  * a. VERB __ VERB: ADVERB (has quickly eaten)
  * b. DET __ NOUN: ADJ (the happy dog)
  * c. VERB __ PRNOUN : PREP (run on/through/with it)
  * d. TENSE __ ##: VERB (they will/want to arrive/eat/go)
    * TENSE includes the infitival marker *to* as well as modal auxillaries (can, could, will, would, etc.)
  * Why don't we write the environment for Adv as V __ ##: Adv?
    * walk slowly, sing loudly
    * ?walk dog, ?sing songs (this environment also works for nouns)
  * We need to try multiple environments and multiple tests to be sure
* Ontology of categories
  * N (Nouns) dog, fish, expectation
  * D (Determiners) the, a, some, few
  * V (Verbs) run, walk, sing, wish
  * T (Tense) to, can, may, could, must, will, have, be, is (copulas)
  * Adj (Adjective) red, tall, happy
  * Adv (Adverb) intentionally, quickly, loudly
  * P (Preposition) in, on, at
  * Deg (Degrees) very, really
    * good diagnostics for adverbs or adjectives (very quickly, really happy, too tall)
  * PQual (Preposition qualifiers) just, right, straight
  * Conj (Conjunctions) and, or, but
  * C (Complementizers) that, if, for, whether
    * Introduces embedded sentences
  * Neg (Negation) not