# CSC324

* Labs on Monday
  * Posted on Friday

## Assignments
* 10 weekly exercises
* 2 large assignments (can be in pairs)
* 1 midterm
* 1 final exam
  
## Office Hours
* Monday 1400-1600
* Wednesday 1500-1700

## Defining a programming language

**Syntax** is the form of the elements of a language. The **grammar** is the set of rules that specify the syntax of the language. That is, *grammars* define *syntax*. Regexes are not powerful enough to capture what we need to express in a programming language.

* Infix arithmetic language
  
```peg
expr = NUMBER
     | "(" expr op expr ")"
     ;

op = "+"
   | "-"
   | "*"
   | "/"
   ;
```

Prefix arithmetic language
```g4
expr = NUMBER
     | "(" op expr expr ")"
     ;

op = "+"
   | "-"
   | "*"
   | "/"
   ;
```

An **expression** is a syntactically valid element of a language. (i.e.) a string that can be generated by applying the rules of the language's grammar.

We **parse** a string representation of an expression into a "more structured" representation. We turn the string into an abstract syntax tree.

The **semantics** of a language is the meaning of the elements of the language. For example, how scope works in a language. How types, function calls, etc. When are types checked?

Consider the above syntax, where `(1/0)` is syntactically valid. However the semantics of this expression are not well formed.

A **turing machine** was a model of programming whose semantics was based on *reading and writing from mutable state*. 

The **lambda calculus** is a model of programming whose semantics were based on the evaluation of pure functions.


