# 2019-09-25 Closures

* Closures have a static part and a dynamic part
  * function body is static
  * dynamic is the env
  * closure is evaluated at creation not at function call

```scheme
(define (make-adder n) (lambda (x) (+ x n)))

(define adder (make-adder 1)) ; This is where closure is eval'd

(adder 100) ; Closure has already been created.
```
Consider the following binding

```scheme
(let* ([n 50]) (adder 100)) ; What does this do?
```
Since the closure has already been created, it does not matter. The binding to `n` has already been created.

We can say that the free identifier (in this case `n`) gets its values *statically*, because its based on where the lambda is written, not where it is called.


The *scope* of an identifier are the part of the program code that may refer to the identifier.

Static, or *lexical scope*, is determined by the structure of the source code. Every identifier obtains its value from the closest enclosing expression that binds it.

So if we replace `adder` with the lambda

```scheme
(let* ([n 50]) ((lambda (x) (+ x n)) 100)) ; What does this do?
```

Now `n` is bound within the `let` scope, that is, `n == 50`.

## Static scope and interpreter

```scheme
(define/match (interpret env expr)
 [(_ (? number?)) expr]
 [(_ (? symbol?)) (hash-ref env expr)]
 [(_ (list '+' l r))
    (+ interpret env 1) (interpret env r)])
```

How do we interpret function calls?

```scheme
(define (f x) (+ x 10))
...

(... (f 2))
```

We only need to pass in the function call env, not the global env.

```scheme
(interpret {x: 2} 'f)
```

How does this work for closures?

```scheme
(interpret env '(adder 2))
```

We can merge the closure environment, and notice that we don't need the global environment once evaluated. A closure **closes over the free identifiers**.

```scheme
(interpret {n: 1, x: 2} '(+ x n))
```

What this means is that the global environment is semantically unused!

```scheme
(define (make-adder z) (lambda (x) (+ x n)))
(let* ([n 50])
    (adder 2)) ; n is not passed into the function call.
```

The environment passed into `adder` does not have `x`. We do not pass in the global environment into function calls.

In static scope, every value looks out to get its environment. How about in dynamic scope.

**dynamic scope** is when the scope of every identifier is determined by when bindings are evaluated during program execution. This can easily be done!

```scheme
(interpret (hash-union env {n : 2}) '(+ x n)) ; pass in global env
```

It used to be that in the 60s, they all used dynamic scope. It would have been easier to implement.

**Bash has dynamic scope!**
```bash
X = "hello"

function printX {
    echo X is $X
}

function localX {
    local X = "world"
    printX
}

printX
localX
```
Prints
```
hello
world
```

Closures do not bind values, but references, so we support mutating values.