# 2019-09-27 Evaluation Order
* When all subexpressions are semantically valid, evaluation order does not matter.
  * When we have errors, or side effects, or if the subexpression does not terminate, then it does matter.

* **Strict denotational semantics**
  * An expression is valid iff all of its subexpressions are valid
    * doesn't raise an error and terminates

* In almost every programming language, **function calls have strict denotational semantics**.
  * We evaluate all the arguments using left-to-right eager evaluation of arguments, before plugging them in.
* **and, or, and if** do not always evaluate every subexpression. They have *non-strict* denotational semantics.
  
```scheme
(and #f (/ 1 0))
(or #t (/ 1 0))
(if (equal? n 0) 0 (/ 1 n))
```

Even though we have invalid expressions, not all subexpressions are evaluated. While the left-to-right evaluation order is preserved, we 'skip' some arguments, short-circuiting the evaluation.

This means that **and**, **or**, and **if**, are **not functions**. That is, their implementation can not be implemented through function calls.

```scheme
(define (my-and x y)
    (and x y))
```
Consider this piece of code, where we simply pass through the value to `and`, if we call `(my-and #f (/ 1 0))`, we will result in a division by zero.

In Racket, `and` is part of the grammar, not a function.

`lambda` also can not be a function. Consider `(lambda (x) (+ x 1))`. We can't evaluate `x`, since `x` doesn't exist. It **can't be** a function, because it can not be implemented with strict denotational semantics.

A **thunk** is a nullary function that wraps an expression to delay its evaluation.

```scheme
(lambda () (/ 1 0))
```

Most programming languages *eagerly evaluate name bindings*.

Compare

```js
clickable.onclick = alert("Hello World");
```

to 

```js
clickable.onclick = () => alert("Hello World");
```

Compare Racket vs Haskell
```scheme
(define return1 (lambda (x) 1))

(return1 (error "Error"))
```
This will return an error as `(error)` is evaluated.

```haskell
return1 = \x -> 1
return1 (error "Error")
```
Haskell uses lazy evaluation, arguments are only evaluated when necessary to evaluate the entire program.
In this case since `x` is never use, it will never be evaluated. However consider the identity function

```haskell
ident = \x -> x
ident (error "Error")
```

This will error, since `x` is needed and thus evaluated at the last moment.

This can be thought of this as each argument being wrapped in a thunk, then passing in the thunk.

```scheme
(define (my-and2 x y) (and (x) (y)))
(my-and2 (lambda () #f) (lambda () (/ 1 0))
```

In Haskell, evaluated values are memoized, which works because functions are always **pure**; the "thunk" will return the same thing for the same inputs. 

As a consequence, `(&&)` and `(||)` short-circuit in Haskell, but are still functions. It means the lambda calculus can implement short-circuiting behaviour.

```haskell
(&&) :: Bool -> Bool -> Bool
```

As well, name bindings in Haskell are *also non strict*.

```haskell
x = error "Error" -- no error!
```
This can be thought of as `x` being a function that takes in 0 arguments, and returns `error`.

## Strictness Analysis
We can analyze which values are necessary to evaluate.

```haskell
f x y = x + 1
```

This is strict on `x`, but not on `y`.

```haskell
f x y z = 
    if x then y + 1 else z + 10
```
`x` is strict, `y` is strict if `x` is true, and if `x` and `y` is true, then `z` is strict.

A parameter is **strict** if it is always required to evaluate the function body.

We can perform static analysis to determine whether or not a given function parameter is 'useless'.

