# 2019-11-01

* Homogenous types vs. heterogenous types
  * Consider the list `x = [True, "hi"]`. Haskell does not allow this implicitly, since it does not allow *heterogenous lists*. We can create a wrapper typedef `data BoolOrStr = B Bool | S String`, then we can create a list `x = [B True, S "hi"]`. However, `x :: [BoolOrStr]`, not different types.
    * everything on the left is the "type", everything on the right are value constructors - functions that return types.
* Consider the definition of the list type
  ```haskell
  data [] a = [] | (:) a ([] a)
  ```
  What is the type of the empty list `[]`?
  ```haskell
  [] :: [a]
  ```
  The type of the empty list is **generically polymorphic!** We can use the empty list anywhere we expect `[a]`!
  ```haskell
  :t True : [] :: [Bool]
  ```
  Then, the `:` function can be polymorphic over `a`
  ```haskell
  (:) :: a -> [a] -> [a]
  ```
  The types are pattern matches, as a sort of constraint satisfaction. If the pattern didn't match, then we have a type error.
  Hence, `[[]] :: [[a]]`, and also `:t head [[], [], [True]] :: [Bool]`.

## Wildcards in the type system
*  Consider the types `underfined` and `error`
     ```haskell
     :t undefined :: a
     :t error :: String -> a
     ```
     Then `undefined` type checks with anything, and `error` is a function that returns a type that type checks with anything.
     Then
     ```haskell
     :t True || undefined :: Bool
     ```
     `undefined :: a` matches with `Bool`!  Similarly so does `error String`. 
     > The Prelude function `error` represents an error with a message, `undefined` represents an error with a standard message.

     ex. Rust, this is more akin to `panic!` than `Result<T, E>`

## Polymorphic parametricity

* If a function is generically polymorphic, there are many things **it can't do**.
* Consider `f :: a -> a`. The only the function that has this type signature (that is total &mdash; doesn't raise an error and doesn't go into an infinite loop) is the identity function! That is, the only function that can have the signature  `f :: a -> a` has the **same behaviour** as `f x = x`.
  * The signature allows us to infer the behaviour of the function!
* Consider the signature `f :: a -> [a]`. The implementations of `f` can only be of the form `f x = []`, `f x = [x]`, `f x = [x, x]`, etc. There are exactly \(||\mathbb{N}||\) implementations.
* Consider `f :: [a] -> [a]`. We can **only** remove, duplicate, and reorder elements in the list here, so we still have infinite implementations. But **we can not assume anything about `a`**
* Consider `f :: (a -> b) -> a -> b`. Then `f x y = x y` is the only implementation here. Note `x` is a function.
* What about `f :: a -> b`? This is impossible as long as we remain within a sound type system (without `undefined`, or `unsafePerformIO`). Alternatively, there are 0 possible implementations of this function.
* With side effects, none of this works!
  ```java
  <T> T f(T x) {
    for (int i = 0; i < 12345678909876543; i++) {
        System.out.println("Hello World");
    }
    return x;
  }
  ```
* With functional programming we can reason more about the program from just the type system.
* Let \(T\) be any concrete type, and \(xs\) be any list of type \([T]\), and \(f\) any function of the form \(T \to \_\).
 Then for any generically polymorphic function with signature \(\text{mix} : [a] \to [a]\)
 Then, we have that \(\text{mix} (\text{map} f . xs) = \text{map} f . \text{mix} (xs)\)

   In Haskell syntax
    ```haskell
    mix $ map f xs == map f $ min xs
    ```
   The order of `map` or `mix` doesn't matter. We can *prove* things about the code based on purity and just the type information. This means that the *compiler can do more powerful refactorings!*
* What is the type of `(+)`? It's not `Integer -> Integer -> Integer`, which is too specific. `a -> a -> a` is too general. 
* `(+) :: Num a => a -> a -> a`, which is a type class that constrains `a`.