# 2019-10-30
* Denotational semantics allows us to envision all kinds of values

Is this an error?

```scheme
(+ 1 "hi")
```

Without typecasting, intuitively adding a string to an integer doesn't make sense. But bitwise, since both values are represented as bytes, it seems to be a perfectly fine notion to add the two values bitwise.

A **type** is a set of values, and (implicitly) a set of behaviours on those values.
A **type system** are the rules governing the use of types in a program and how those types affect language semantics.

* Programming languages are a form of communication. Code communicates what or how we want to compute. 
  * Intuitively type systems *restrict* what we want to express, but another way of viewing it is
    * *Type systems express constraints on our computation.*

```scheme
(+ 1 "hi") ; gives contract violation (expected: number?)
```

But in Racket, contracts are checked at runtime.

```scheme
(or #t (+ 1 "hi")) ; #t -- no error is raised
```

In Haskell

```haskell
True || 1 + "hi"
```

This is a type error, despite it being short-circuited. But since `(||) :: Bool -> Bool -> Bool`, the second argument `1 + "hi"` is not of type `Bool`.

Racket is dynamically typed. Types are evaluated at runtime, as late as possible.

Haskell is statically typed, where types are checked in the program AST. 

Note that `error :: [Char] -> a`, so 
```haskell
True || (error "Error")
```
typechecks correctly (think of `a` as kind of a hole). 

Hence

```haskell
:t True || (error "Error") :: Bool
```

Dynamically-typed languages accept a larger set of expressible programs than statically typed languages. They are more flexible for better or for worse

## Haskell's type system

Haskell functions are automatically curried.

```haskell
:t (&&) :: Bool -> Bool -> Bool
```
Since Haskell is automatically curried
```haskell
:t (&&) True :: Bool -> Bool
```

Product (struct) types can be created
```haskell
data Point = P Integer Integer
```

`Point` is the name of the type, `P` is a value constructor


```haskell
:t P Integer -> Integer -> Point
```

Sum (enum) types are defined like so
```haskell
data Day = Monday | Tuesday | Wednesday | Thursday | Friday | Saturday | Sunday
```

Think of the days as *nullary* value constructors.
```haskell
:t Monday :: Day
```

An **algebraic data type** is a data type formed by any combination of sum and product types.

```haskell
data List = Empty | Cons Integer List 
```
`Cons :: Integer -> List -> List` is a constructor, and so is `Empty`. 

Notice that in the definition `Integer List` are the arguments to `Cons`, and the return type is `List`. `Empty :: List` is a unit constructor, and takes no arguments. 

All types are *closed* to extension, and there is no inheritance of attributes or methods. 

We can use generics to implement *polymorphism*


```haskell
data List a = Empty | Cons a (List a)
```

`a` is a parameter that can be replaced with any type.

Hence the default 

```haskell
data [] a = [] | (:) a ([] a)
```

`[]` is a type constructor, it is a function that takes a type and returns a new type, and `a` is a type variable.

Functions can also be generically polymorphic.

```haskell
id :: a -> a
length :: [a] -> Int
```
