---
tags: 
  - infinities
---
# 2018-01-17.0

## Expressing the notion of "infinitely many"

> *The are infintely many natural numbers that are even*.
> \(Even(x): Predicate \equiv \exists y \in \mathbb{N} x = 2y\)
> *For every x there is a bigger y that is Even.*
> \(\forall x \in \mathbb{N},  \exists y \in \mathbb{N}\) such that \(y > x \land Even(y)\)
> **This following is wrong.**
> \(\forall x \in \mathbb{N}, Even(x) \Rightarrow \exists y \in \mathbb{N}, y > x \land Even(y)\)
> This is because if there are no even numbers, then this statement would be vacuously true.

Consider a predicate \(Q(x) : \mathbb{N} \rightarrow \{0, 1\}\) that is false \(\forall x \in \mathbb{N}\).
Then the statement, \(\forall x \in \mathbb{N}, Q(x) \Rightarrow \exists y \in \mathbb{N}, y > x \land Q(y)\) is always true as the condition for the implication is always false. We must somehow assert that there is at least one \(x\) that \(Q(x)\) is true. 

\(\exists x \in \mathbb{N}, Q(z) \land \forall x \in \mathbb{N}. \exists y \in \mathbb{N}, y > n \land Q(y)\), but our first condition is already implied by the second.

## Tips and conventions 
1. Make sure you write down a predicate logic formula with the correct syntax
2. Use different variable names for different quantifiers.

## Filtering 

Say we want to quantifiy over all the natural numbers greater than 5.

1. Predifine our set
  > Let \(S\) = \(\{x | x \in \mathbb{N}, x \geq 5\}\)
  > \(\forall x \in S.x \geq 3\)
2. Implications
  > \(\forall x \in \mathbb{N}. x \geq 5 \Rightarrow x \geq 3\)

**We can not do the following**.
> *Example*
> \(\exists x. f \text{ maps }  x \text{ to exactly one } y\)
> Let \(S\) =\(\{ y | y \in \mathbb{N}, y \neq z\}\)
> \(\exists x \in \mathbb{N}, \exists z \in \mathbb{N}. f(x) = z \land \forall y \in S. f(x) \neq y\)

Definition of the set can not have undefined variables.

## Rationale

We want to spend a lot of time defining new predicates using predicate logic, then reasoning about them.

> *Example*
> **Divisibility**
> Let \(n, d \in \mathbb{Z}\)
> We say that \(d\) divides \(n\) or \(n\) is divisible by \(d\) if \(\exists k \in \mathbb{Z}\) such that \(n = d \cdot k\).
> \(\text{Divides}(d, n): \exists k \in \mathbb{Z}. n = dk\)
> \(n\) and \(d\)  are called *free variables*. We do not know the truth value of \(\text{Divides}\) as we haven't specified. the domain, and we can not specify them in the language of the definition. Instead we restrict the domain after the definition of the formula.
> This formula since it has free variables, it represents a predicate
> \(\text{Divides}(d, n) : \mathbb{Z} \times \mathbb{Z} \rightarrow \{0, 1\}\).
> A formula with no free variables is a sentence which must have a value true or false.

> *Example*
> We will express the notion "For every integer x if x divides 10, the it also divides 100".
> \(\forall x \in \mathbb{Z}. \text{Divides}(x, 10) \Rightarrow \text{Divides}(x, 100)\).
> Notice that since \(\text{Divides}\) itself is built of quantifiers we can replace it with the sentence.
> \(\forall x \in \mathbb{Z}. \exists k \in \mathbb{Z}.10 = kx \Rightarrow \exists k' \in \mathbb{Z}.100 = k'x\).
> We can choose \(k' = 10k\).
> Notice that \(k\) is in the scope of \(k'\), so we are allowed to pick \(k'\) depend on \(k\).
> \(\forall x \in \mathbb{Z}[ \exists k \in \mathbb{Z}[10 = kx \Rightarrow \exists k' \in \mathbb{Z}[100 = k'x]]]\)
