# 2018-01-08.1

## Preliminaries
## Sets
> A _set_ is a collection of distinct objects called _elements_, and is not necessarily ordered.
> #### Example
> \(S_1 = \{ a, b, c, d \}\)
> \(S_2 = { \text{\{all people in this room\}} }\)
> \(S_3 = \mathbb{N} = \{ 0, 1, 2, 3, ...\} \text{ (Infinite Set)}\)
> \(S_4 = \{ x | x \in \mathbb{N}, x \geq 3\}\)

### Common Sets
1. Empty Set \(\{\} = \emptyset\)
2. Natural Numbers \(\mathbb{N}\)
3. Integers \(\mathbb{Z} = \{..., -3, -2, -1, 0, 1, 2, 3, ...\}\)
4. Rationals \(\mathbb{Q} = \{\frac{p}{q} | p, q \in \mathbb{Z}, q \neq 0 \}\) 
5. \(S = \{\{a, b\} | a, b \in \mathbb{N}\} \text{(Set whose elements are sets)}\) 

### Operations on Sets
1. Operations that map sets to \(\text{True}\) or \(\text{False} \)
  * > \(x \in A\) : True iff x is in A.
  * > \(A \subseteq B\): True iff for all a in A, a is also in B.
        \(A \subseteq A\) is always true, as well as \(\emptyset \subseteq A\)
  * > \(A = B\): True iff \(A \subseteq B \land B \subseteq A\)

2. Operation that produce new sets
 * > \(A \cup B\) **A Union B** _All the distinct elements in A and B_ `A.Concat(B).Distinct`
 * > \(A \cap B\) **A Intersect B** _The elements in both A and B_
 * > \(A \setminus B\) **A Set Minus B** _The elements in A that are not in B_
 * > \(A \times B\) **A Cross B** _A set of tuples (a, b) for all a in A and b in B._
 * > \(\mathcal{P}(A)\) **Power Set of A** _All possible subsets of A_. Smallest is the empty set.
      For any set \(A\), the size of \(\mathcal{P}(A)\) is always \(2^{|A|}\).
      
### Functions
> Let \(A, B\) be sets. A function \(f : A \rightarrow B\) is a mapping that takes each \(a \in A\) to one \(b \in B\).
> #### Example
> \(A = \{a, b, c, d\}, B = \{1, 2, 3\}\)
 ```
 a -> 1
 b -> 2
 c -> 2
 d -> 3
 ``` 
 
 A function can be represented by tuples of its results.
 
\(f : \mathbb{N} \mapsto \mathbb{N}\)
\(f(x) = x-3\)
This function \(f\) is not a well defined function. For example \(x = 0\) map to \(-3 \notin \mathbb{N}\).

\(g : \mathbb{Z} \mapsto \mathbb{Z}\)
\(g(x) = x-3\)

This function \(g\) is well defined.

1. A function \(f : S_1 \mapsto S_2\) is _one-to-one_ (injective)  if \(\forall s_2 \in S_2\), at **most** one \(s_1 \in S_1\) maps to it.
2. A function \(f : S_1 \mapsto S_2\) is _onto_ (surjective)  if \(\forall s_2 \in S_2\), at **least** one \(s_1 \in S_1\) maps to it.
3. A function \(f : S_1 \mapsto S_2\) is  both _one-to-one_ and _onto_ (bijective) \(f\) is both injective and surjective. In other words, \(\forall s_2 \in S_2\) exactly one \(s_1 \in S_1\) maps to it.

Without loss of generality, if \(A\) is a finite set, and \(B\) is a set, for a function \(f : A \mapsto B\) to be bijective, then \(|A| = |B|\). Note that this implies the necessity for \(B\) to be finite.

### Summation / Product Notation
> \(1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + ... + n = \sum_{i=1}^n = i\)
> \(1 * 2 * 3 * 4 * ... + n = \prod_{i=1}^n = i\)

### Propositional Logic

* Propositional variables \((p, q, r)\) take on values _true_ or _false_.
* Binary operators \(\lor \land \lnot \Longrightarrow \Longleftrightarrow\)

### Operators

#### AND (\(\land\))

|\(p\)|\(q\)|\(p\land q\)|
|-------|-------|--------------|
|0|0|0|
|0|1|0|
|1|0|0|
|1|1|1|

#### OR (\(\lor\))

|\(p\)|\(q\)|\(p\land q\)|
|-------|-------|--------------|
|0|0|0|
|0|1|1|
|1|0|1|
|1|1|1|


#### NOT (\(\lnot\))

|\(p\)|\(\lnot p\)|
|-------|-------|
|0|1|
|1|0|

#### DeMorgan's Rules
* \(\lnot(p\lor q) \equiv \lnot p \land \lnot q\)
* \(\lnot(p\land q) \equiv \lnot p \lor \lnot q\)
* \(\lnot\lnot p \equiv p\)
|\(p\)|\(q\)|\(\lnot(p\lor q)\)|\(\lnot p \land \lnot q\)
|-------|-------|--------------|-----|
|0|0|1|1|
|0|1|0|0|
|1|0|0|0|
|1|1|0|0|


#### Implies (\(\Longrightarrow \equiv \lnot p \lor q\))
|\(p\)|\(q\)|\(p\Longrightarrow q\)|
|-------|-------|--------------|
|0|0|1 (Vacuous)|
|0|1|1 (Vacuous)|
|1|0|0|
|1|1|1|

##### Ex.
> \(\lnot((p \Longrightarrow \lnot r) \land (\lnot q \Longrightarrow \lnot t))\)
> \(\lnot(p \Longrightarrow \lnot r) \lor \lnot(\lnot q \Longrightarrow \lnot t))\)
> \(\lnot(\lnot p \lor \lnot r) \lor \lnot(\lnot\lnot q \lor \lnot t)\)
> \(\lnot(\lnot p \lor \lnot r) \lor \lnot(q \lor \lnot t)\)
> \((p \land r) \lor (\lnot q \land  t)\)

#### Contrapositive
\(p \Longrightarrow q \equiv \lnot q \Longrightarrow \lnot p\)
#### Biconditional (\(\Longleftrightarrow\))
A => B ^ B => A