# 2018-4-2

## Homework 4 comments
2. Let `i`, `x` be variables, where `i = n-1` and `x = 1`. Show that the BC is Omega of log n. Need to argue for every input of length n, ,runtime i >= c log n. Need to argue that the runtime is at least as great as log n times a constant. Pick constant to be less than 1, and for the first log n over 4 steps, while loop can not terminate.
3. c. come up with a formula equal to the total number of graphs on n verticies. = # of possible adj. matrices that represent graphs
   d. attempt proof by induction, be careful to justify step.
   f. average runtime (sum up over all possible graphs)/total number of graphs (treat all graphs with same expression the same) Try to show Theta (n^2) leq constant * n^2 geq constant * n^2. Simplify terms and replace stuff thats bigger. 
   
  3 c. Graph is 2^(n)(n-1)/2
  > Each "cell" in the adjacency matrix represents 1 edge in the graph. There are n choose 2  = (n)(n-1)/2 entries for a graph with |V| = n verticies. Each graph can contain 2 choices, and each permutation of the graph counts as 2 different matrices. With 2 choices for each number of entry we have that the amount of possibnle graphs is 2^(n choose 2).
   
  ## Graphs
  Trees are minimally connected graphs (without cycles). Trees have n-1 edges. 
  
  > *def'n* A *cycle* is a sequence of verticies \(v_1, v_2, v_3, ... ,v_k\) where 
  > 1. \(v_0 = v_k\)
  > 2. All other verticies are distinct
  > 3. \(\forall i, Connected(v_i, v_{i+1})\)
  > 4. \(k \geq 3\).
  
  
  > *def'n* A tree is a graph that is minimally connected.
  
  ### Main Cycles Theorem
  
  **Theorem**: A graph is minimally connected, if and only if it is connected and has no cycles. This is equivalent to saying that a graph is minimally connected if and only if you remove any edge it becomes disconnected.
  
  
  Let \(g = (V, E)\) and assume \(g\) is connected and has a cycle. 
  
  First show that removing an edge from a cycled graph still is connected.
  Then show that adding an edge from  connected graph will create a cycle.
  
  **Theorem**
  If \(G\) is tree, then it has \(n-1\) edges.
  
**Proof**
> Let \(P(n)\): any tree on \(n\) vertices has \(n-1\) edges
> \(P(1): n-1 = 0\)
> \(P(n) \implies P(n+1)\): 
> Let \(g\) be a tree on \(n+1\) vertices. \(g\) is connected and has no cycles. If we remove a vertex \(v\) with degree 1, then by inductive hypothesis on \(g' = (V', E')\), \(v'= V-v, E' = E - e\) to conclude \(g'\) has \(n-1\) edges. Then adding back the vertiex we have n edges. 
> 

## Rooted Trees
> A rooted tree is a tree with distinguished vertex \(r \in V\) called the root. A parent is a node above a given node \(v\). Ancestors are all the subsequent parents of the parent node, and the children are the nodes directly attached below \(v\), and descendents the children of the children.
> *height*: The height of the root is 1, and the children of the root have height 2. You must fix a root to get a height.

*def'n*: A binary rooted tree is a rooted tree where every vertex has at most two children. 

>*What is the maximum/minimum number of vertices in a rooted binary tree?*
> For a height \(h\), the minimum is \(h\), and the maximum is \(2^h - 1\).

**Theorem** Let \(h \in \mathbb{N}\) be the height of a binary tree \(T =(V, E)\). Then \(|V| \leq 2^h -1\).
**Proof**.
We omit the base case \(h = 1\) by triviality.
Then assuming the theorem is true for case \(h = n\), let \(T\) be a tree of height \(h+1\). Let \(T_l\) and \(T_r\) be the trees rooted at the left and right children of the root of \(T\). By the inductive hypothesis, \(T_l\) and \(T_r\) have height at most \(h\), and hence the total amount of vertices is at most \(2 * 2^{h} -1\) between them, plus the root. Hence we have that the maximum amount of verticies is \(2^{h+1} -1 \blacksquare\) .