# 2017-11-21
- modern amenities newspapers, monetary instrument etc...
- case study changan han and suitang
- may be a foreign king but offer scholars to imperial court of China
- mocked by a foreigner by merchant classes did not study knowledge

* why did they decline and become forgotten
* in year 1000 kaifung was as important as nyc today


## Chang'an (Md. Xi'an)
* Capital of many dynasties, moved
  * Qin: Xiangyang
  * Han: Chang'an
  * Ming-Qing: Xi'an
  * Sui-Tang: Chang'an

* Han Dynasty
  * 8km x 10km walls around Chang'an
    * pop. 250 000
  * compared to Rome, half the size, substantially more population.
  * Planned city laid out on grid
* Tang Dynasty
  * North: military
  * South: decadent, luxurious
  * Life was easier in the south, many would move many times over the year
  * 180 rectangular wards by grid system
  * pop. 2m people from all over the world
  * Terminal point of Silk Road
  * Heavy Turkish, persian influence 
  * Shenzong was the height, sacked after An Lushan rebellion
  * Constructred in 582, further north than Han Chang'an
  * One-time design
  * 6x Baghad 6x Byzantium
  * Wards were similar to zones, some were residential, some were merchants
  * Ward gates could be locked up, with curfew, to keep city secure
Very little of original Chang'an is left, research mostly Japanese from using Chang'an as a model capital
* artifacts
* buildings
* paintings
* texts
  

Network of travellers
  * aspiring officials (civil service exams)
  * court officials
  * religious pilgrims (ex. Ennin)
  * merchants from Central Asia
  * foreign envoys

### Heian-kyo (Md. Kyoto) Layout
  * Grid structure
  * No walls
  * Not really built to capacity

### Kaifeng & Hangzhou
 * Song dynasty capital
 * huge city
 * beginning of modernity, capitalist 
 * Southeast
 * Crops grown in Hangzhou distributed broadly across China
 * population explosion
 * by 1100 ~ 100 million people in China

### Bejing
 * tang dynasty outpost at Beijing known as Youjou
 * Used a a capital by non chinese people (mongols)
 * Ming Dynasty Yongle Emporer took over the Mongol capital
 * Great Wall to protext Beijing
 * Already walls being built since the Qin dynasty
 * Ming dynasty consolidate to one great fortification
 * Originally a walled city
 * Would live in and outside the wall
## Edo (Md. Tokyo)
* Shogun could not keep hold of the government
* Ashikaga Yoshimitsu gave power to Daimyous
* Ashikaga Yoshimasa built a temple Silver Pavillion and let the Daimyous do what they want
* Kyoto culture, poetry, sake, etc. Shogun got swept into court culture.
* Kyoto fell destitute during the Sengoku period
* Buddhist clergy gained some wealth but cut off from trade with China
* Oda Nobunaga -> Tototomi Hideyoshi -> Tokugawa Ieyasu took power 
* Tokaido connected from Edo to Kyoto.
* Began as a fort, then a town, and a castle
* Biggest city in the world by 1800