# 2017-12-05
Weirdos

**What makes an eccentric in his society?**

Eccentricity as mental illness/madness?


* Cut your ties to family/reality -> achieve enlightenment
* In conflict with Confucian family values
* Non productive biologically
* Mahayana Buddhism -> be able to worship the boddhistavas but not required to become an eccentric. 

## Zhuangzi
Three Daoist Text:
* Liezi
  * May not be a real person?
* Laozi
* Zhuangzi
  * 30 chapters
  * Attributable to one person

**Zhuang Zhou** *369-286 BCE*
Daoist Philosopher

Thoughts were deeply destablizing and subversive towards Confucian thought. Yet still venerated and preserved. 

Wind going over the creaks of the earth creates a great racous, but emotions are as transcendent as the empty wind.

Without the body there is consciousness and no self, but without consciousness there is no self, only a collection with body parts. Who is the master of this body parts? Is consciousness truly the master of the body?

Language is a means to labelling things, label ideas to get beyond such ideas. Use words to grasp a meaning, once you get the idea you can set aside the language. Ladder to get to a certain philsophical position but the ladder is a tool to arrive at the position.

Where things come from temporally/labels, reality. There must have been a beginning/big bang, can't get beyond from before the big bang. There is not/there is.

Hui-zi was the interlocutor with Zhuang-zi. Intuition of the joy of fish, knows it by knowing.

Existence: Everything is a dream and you are dreaming, then what is the point of telling me it is a dream? Yet by the fact that I am dreaming that you are telling I am dreaming proves I am dreaming?

Butterfly dreaming he was Zhuang-zi or Zhuang-zi dreaming he was a butterfly?


### Liu Ling (221-300)
* Gets drunk all the time
* Take off all his clothes and sits naked in his room

### Li Bai (701-762)
* thinking and eccentricity must only be temporary and fully realised in another realm


### Wonhyo
* Truth is created by the mind
* Three worlds are only mind.
* Truth is presence in the mind, how can it be found outside of the mind?
* Drinking water out of what  he thought to be  gourd, but was rainwater collected in a skullcap full of maggots
* Vomiting up conventional ways to see unity

### Sound of one Hand Clapping Koan
* Soundless sound
* true sound