# 2019-10-17 Quotation

* Personal anthologies
* Poets were very well known
* Authorship in imperial and personal anthologies

* Allusive Variations
  * *honkadori　本歌取り*, adaptation of a source poem within a poem
  * *honmondori　本文取り*, adaptation of a source in Chinese poetry or prose within a poem
* allusion
  * *hikiuta 引歌*, quotation of a poem within a prose
    * poems are alluded to
* how were poems distributed?
  * hand copying of writings
  * limited the range of circulation
  * readers might be friends, colleagues, and associates
  * can be very private or public
  * commisioned anthologies are very publicized
    * *uta-awase*, or poetry contest.
  * chinese source, and use a poem
* **why were these considered plagiarism?**
  * original poets do not have sources
  * **everyone knows the corpus of existing poems**
  * everyone has the same education and standard
  * *if you don't know the source, it's your fault*.
* fujiwara no teika said you can adopt up to 2 lines of your poem within an existing poem
  * place it in the later part of the poem, for more variation
* change the topic in *honkadori*
* homondori involves the use of chinese poetry or prose
* before *Genji*, poetry was considered "above" prose fiction, and was used to bring elegance to prose fiction.
* after *Genji*, the status of prose fiction was elevated, leading to 物語取り, adaptation of phrases from a tale.
  * poets would use scenes or lines from a story to base a poem around.
* 歌合わせ 
  * based on a given topic to two poets
  * two poets would compose a poem on the same topic
  * the judge would choose which one is better.
  * an imperial contest led to the rise of the status
    * a poet died of the shock of losing
  * imaginary poetry matches documented, compared to real public rituals 
  * fujiwara no shunsei
* Genji's canonical status
  * A poem based on Genji's story
  * Round 13, Winter 1 "Sear Fields"
    * Left, a lady of the court (藤原良経)
      * > Is there naught wherewith I might capture this autumnal scene I have known
        > This grassy moor transformed to a totally withered plain?
    * Right, Takanobu Ason (隆信朝臣)
      * > Can there be one who sees not the touching beauty of frost-withered fields 
        > Once his heart has been tinged by the brilliant tints of autumn?
    * The Right had a criticism of the phrase "grassy moor", calling it unpleasant, but was a reference to *Genji*. Judge saw this was "inaddmissable" : "To compose poetry without having read Genji is inexecusable".
      * Implication is that the Right did not read Genji, or forgot about it.
    * Affair in 'hana no en' turned out to be the fiance of his brother
* Fictional characters as contestants?
  * end of 12th C to early 13thC
    * Monogatari nihyakuban utawase
    * 物語二百番歌合わせ
    * fictional poetry contest, by 藤原定家
  * 風葉和歌集 collected fictional character compositions
* murasaki had to know how to compose bad poems as there were bad poets in genji
* intertextuality - composition of one text in another

* Spring 2, *Shinkokinshu*, No. 114
  
> Will I ever again
> *mata ya min*
> seek cherry blossoms
> *Katano no mino no*
> In the royal fields of Katano?
> *sakuragari*
> Flower of falling snow
> *hana no yuki chiru*
> Early dawn in spring
> *haru no akebono* 

Lamenting if he will see cherry blossoms once again. *haru no akebono* comes from The Pillow Book. *katano no mino no* is an allusion to the Ise Stories, where they went to Katano to enjoy the cherry blossoms.

Autumn and spring are always given 2 volumes as they are priviledged.

> As evening approaches
> *ゆうされば*
> The autumn wind over the field
> *のべのあきかぜ*
> Pierce my body --
> *みにしめて*
> A quail cries
> *うずらなくなり*
> In the deep grass of Fukakusa
> *ふくかさのさと*
 藤原俊成, 千載集, Autumn 1, no. 250

*a quail cries* is a reference to Ise monogatari where his lover writes that she will become a quail to see him. Unlike in Ise, the poem is a "what if": The man has left the woman, so the woman has become a quail waiting for the man to come hunt her.

The tale of genji has become an canonical work, and is a difficult and long text. Genji itself is intertextual, there are allusions to Japanese, Chinese, Religious literature, etc.

*Renga* -- Linked Poetry
Composed by 3 poets, collaborating
* First poet would just compose 5-7-5 (3 lines)
* Second poet would write 7-7 (2 lines)
* Third poet 
* Themes must be different between the 2 composers
* Both *listening*, and *creation*.

* Haiku came from *renga* the first 3 lines of a renga.
  
## Theatre
* In western culture, theatre is very highly regarded
  * royalty would endorse theatre, etc.
* In japan, theatre was of lower status, and did not garner much respect.
  * kan'ami (1333-84)
    * created Noh with his son 
    * zeami (1363-1443) 
  * in bakufu period class hierarchy was very much challenged
    * kan'ami and zeami were originally from the lower class, and did not receive education.
    * patronized by the shogun ashikaga yoshimitsu who introduced them to aristocratic figures
    * aristocratic figures would tutor kan'ami and zeami, and they became very well read