# 2017-09-22

A **method** is a function defined in a class.

First parameter is passed implicitly (`self`). 

```python
david = User('david', 'lover of chocolate')
david.verbosity(2016)
```
`verbosity` receives the value (a pointer to) of `david` in the first parameter, named `self` by convention.

```python
word = 'somestring'
word.count(6) # 10
```
This is equivalent:
```python
str.count(word, 'i') # 10
# This is non pythonic.
```

The object oriented method is preferred. 

## Preconditions
A condition an argument must satisfy other than the type contract. Violating a precondition is **undefined behaviour**, and whether or not we check the condition is a **design condition**.

Checking on methods: **onus on method**
Declare a precondition: **onus on client code**

Declaring a precondition may simplify and speed up the method. 

Example: binary search requires the list to be sorted. 

Label as such as docstring:
```python
"""
=== Preconditions ===
"""
```

## Method or function?
* Method
  * Essential to the client of the class
  * Important to the definition of the item

* Function
  * Specialized utility
  * Not every client wouldd need
  * Implemented by client code.

## Representation Invariants
Able to assume these conditions are true when the method begins. A restriction on the domain of the values of the class. Important to write down to help write down in methods. 

Methods should ensure that the RIs are still true when the exercise flow is returned to the caller.

**RI**s are the responsibility of the implementation, but **Preconditions** are the responsibility of the client.

## Pythonic way
Python philosophy is to welcome client code to access data unless there is a good reason not to. **All attributes openly available**.

> \(\text{We're all consenting adults here} - Guido.\)

If the structures complex, client code should be restricted.
If there are important constraints, prevent client code from messing it up.


