# 2017-11-13

## Recursion wrap-up

* Must be one base case
* May have more than one base case.
* Any recursive call must ultimately reach a base case.
  * Infinite recursion
  * Out of memory

* Helper methods to add a parameter to store memory on stack

Any problem we can solve with iteration can be solved with just recursion
  * Some languages have nothing but recursion

Any problem we can solve with recursion can be solved with iteration, some problems have simple elegant recursive solutions, and only complex non-recursive solutions.

"Mind your own business"

No need to follow "and then"

## Binary Search Tree

### Binary Trees

* General tree class allows any number of children per node.
* Branching factor of node is its number of children
* Binary tree has a branching factor of 2
* We call children left and right children
* If there is one subtree, we need to know which side it's on
* We allow either the left or right to be empty subtrees.
* if root is none, so are left and right
  * Represents an empty tree.
  * Analogous to what we did for our general class.
* If root is not none, then left and right are trees
  * But can be an empty tree
  * A leaf has two empty tree children.

### Binary Search Tree

* For every node, its value is greater than or equal to every value in its left subtree
  * less than or equal for every value in its right subtree
Follows that every subtree of a BST is also a BST.
We are allowing duplicates on either side


```
68 -> 11 -> -8 -> -22
               -> 2
         -> 
   -> 75 -> 71
         ->
         -> 105 -> 91 -> 92
                      ->
                ->

```

Preorder traversal:
```
68 -> 11 -> -8 -> -22 -> 2 -> 75 -> 71 -> 105 -> 91 -> 92
```

Inorder traversal:
```
-22 -> -8 -> 2 -> 11 -> 68 -> 71 -> 75 -> 91 -> 92 -> 105
```


Inorder traversal (With Nones):
```
-22 -> -8 -> 2 -> 11 -> None -> 68 -> 71 -> 75 -> 91 -> None -> 92 -> 105
```